The Project Gutenberg EBook of Missing Link, by Frank Patrick Herbert

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Missing Link

Author: Frank Patrick Herbert

Release Date: October 27, 2007 [EBook #23210]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MISSING LINK ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Bruce Albrecht, Markus Brenner and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net






MISSING LINK

BY FRANK HERBERT


Transcriber’s Note: This etext was produced from Astounding Science
Fiction, Volume LXII No. 6, February 1959. Extensive research did not
uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was
renewed.


[Illustration]


_The Romantics used to say that the eyes were the windows of the Soul.
A good Alien Xenologist might not put it quite so poetically ... but he
can, if he’s sharp, read a lot in the look of an eye!_

Illustrated by van Dongen



“We ought to scrape this planet clean of every living thing on it,”
muttered Umbo Stetson, section chief of Investigation & Adjustment.

Stetson paced the landing control bridge of his scout cruiser. His
footsteps grated on a floor that was the rear wall of the bridge during
flight. But now the ship rested on its tail fins—all four hundred
glistening red and black meters of it. The open ports of the bridge
looked out on the jungle roof of Gienah III some one hundred fifty
meters below. A butter yellow sun hung above the horizon, perhaps an
hour from setting.

“Clean as an egg!” he barked. He paused in his round of the bridge,
glared out the starboard port, spat into the fire-blackened circle that
the cruiser’s jets had burned from the jungle.

The I-A section chief was dark-haired, gangling, with large head and big
features. He stood in his customary slouch, a stance not improved by
sacklike patched blue fatigues. Although on this present operation he
rated the flag of a division admiral, his fatigues carried no insignia.
There was a general unkempt, straggling look about him.

Lewis Orne, junior I-A field man with a maiden diploma, stood at the
opposite port, studying the jungle horizon. Now and then he glanced at
the bridge control console, the chronometer above it, the big translite
map of their position tilted from the opposite bulkhead. A heavy planet
native, he felt vaguely uneasy on this Gienah III with its gravity of
only seven-eighths Terran Standard. The surgical scars on his neck where
the micro-communications equipment had been inserted itched maddeningly.
He scratched.

“Hah!” said Stetson. “Politicians!”

A thin black insect with shell-like wings flew in Orne’s port, settled
in his close-cropped red hair. Orne pulled the insect gently from his
hair, released it. Again it tried to land in his hair. He ducked. It
flew across the bridge, out the port beside Stetson.

There was a thick-muscled, no-fat look to Orne, but something about his
blocky, off-center features suggested a clown.

“I’m getting tired of waiting,” he said.

“_You’re_ tired! Hah!”

A breeze rippled the tops of the green ocean below them. Here and there,
red and purple flowers jutted from the verdure, bending and nodding like
an attentive audience.

“Just look at that blasted jungle!” barked Stetson. “Them and their
stupid orders!”

A call bell tinkled on the bridge control console. The red light above
the speaker grid began blinking. Stetson shot an angry glance at it.
“Yeah, Hal?”

“O.K., Stet. Orders just came through. We use Plan C. ComGO says to
brief the field man, and jet out of here.”

“Did you ask them about using another field man?”

Orne looked up attentively.

The speaker said: “Yes. They said we have to use Orne because of the
records on the _Delphinus_.”

“Well then, will they give us more time to brief him?”

“Negative. It’s crash priority. ComGO expects to blast the planet
anyway.”

Stetson glared at the grid. “Those fat-headed, lard-bottomed,
pig-brained ... POLITICIANS!” He took two deep breaths, subsided. “O.K.
Tell them we’ll comply.”

“One more thing, Stet.”

“What now?”

“I’ve got a confirmed contact.”

Instantly, Stetson was poised on the balls of his feet, alert. “Where?”

“About ten kilometers out. Section AAB-6.”

“How many?”

“A mob. You want I should count them?”

“No. What’re they doing?”

“Making a beeline for us. You better get a move on.”

“O.K. Keep us posted.”

“Right.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Stetson looked across at his junior field man. “Orne, if you decide you
want out of this assignment, you just say the word. I’ll back you to the
hilt.”

“Why should I want out of my first field assignment?”

“Listen, and find out.” Stetson crossed to a tilt-locker behind the big
translite map, hauled out a white coverall uniform with gold insignia,
tossed it to Orne. “Get into these while I brief you on the map.”

“But this is an R&R uni—” began Orne.

“Get that uniform on your ugly frame!”

“Yes, sir, Admiral Stetson, sir. Right away, sir. But I thought I was
through with old Rediscovery & Reeducation when you drafted me off of
Hamal into the I-A ... sir.” He began changing from the I-A blue to the
R&R white. Almost as an afterthought, he said: “... Sir.”

A wolfish grin cracked Stetson’s big features. “I’m soooooo happy you
have the proper attitude of subservience toward authority.”

Orne zipped up the coverall uniform. “Oh, yes, sir ... sir.”

“O.K., Orne, pay attention.” Stetson gestured at the map with its green
superimposed grid squares. “Here we are. Here’s that city we flew over
on our way down. You’ll head for it as soon as we drop you. The place is
big enough that if you hold a course roughly northeast you can’t miss
it. We’re—”

Again the call bell rang.

“What is it this time, Hal?” barked Stetson.

“They’ve changed to Plan H, Stet. New orders cut.”

“Five days?”

“That’s all they can give us. ComGO says he can’t keep the information
out of High Commissioner Bullone’s hands any longer than that.”

“It’s five days for sure then.”

“Is this the usual R&R foul-up?” asked Orne.

Stetson nodded. “Thanks to Bullone and company! We’re just one jump
ahead of catastrophe, but they still pump the bushwah into the Rah & Rah
boys back at dear old Uni-Galacta!”

“You’re making light of my revered alma mater,” said Orne. He struck a
pose. “We must reunite the lost planets with our centers of culture and
industry, and take up the _glor_-ious onward march of mankind that was
so _bru_-tally—”

“Can it!” snapped Stetson. “We both know we’re going to rediscover one
planet too many some day. Rim War all over again. But this is a
different breed of fish. It’s not, repeat, _not_ a _re_-discovery.”

Orne sobered. “Alien?”

“Yes. A-L-I-E-N! A never-before-contacted culture. That language you
were force fed on the way over, that’s an alien language. It’s not
complete ... all we have off the _minis_. And we excluded data on the
natives because we’ve been hoping to dump this project and nobody the
wiser.”

“Holy mazoo!”

“Twenty-six days ago an I-A search ship came through here, had a routine
mini-sneaker look at the place. When he combed in his net of sneakers to
check the tapes and films, lo and behold, he had a little stranger.”

“One of _theirs_?”

“No. It was a _mini_ off the _Delphinus Rediscovery_. The _Delphinus_
has been unreported for eighteen standard months!”

“Did it crack up here?”

“We don’t know. If it did, we haven’t been able to spot it. She was
supposed to be way off in the Balandine System by now. But we’ve
something else on our minds. It’s the one item that makes me want to
blot out this place, and run home with my tail between my legs. We’ve
a—”

Again the call bell chimed.

“NOW WHAT?” roared Stetson into the speaker.

“I’ve got a _mini_ over that mob, Stet. They’re talking about us. It’s a
definite raiding party.”

“What armament?”

“Too gloomy in that jungle to be sure. The infra beam’s out on this
_mini_. Looks like hard pellet rifles of some kind. Might even be off
the _Delphinus_.”

“Can’t you get closer?”

“Wouldn’t do any good. No light down there, and they’re moving up fast.”

“Keep an eye on them, but don’t ignore the other sectors,” said Stetson.

“You think I was born yesterday?” barked the voice from the grid. The
contact broke off with an angry sound.

       *       *       *       *       *

“One thing I like about the I-A,” said Stetson. “It collects such
even-tempered types.” He looked at the white uniform on Orne, wiped a
hand across his mouth as though he’d tasted something dirty.

“Why _am_ I wearing this thing?” asked Orne.

“Disguise.”

“But there’s no mustache!”

Stetson smiled without humor. “That’s one of I-A’s answers to those
fat-keistered politicians. We’re setting up our own search system to
find the planets before _they_ do. We’ve managed to put spies in key
places at R&R. Any touchy planets our spies report, we divert the
files.”

“Then what?”

“Then we look into them with bright boys like you—disguised as R&R
field men.”

“Goody, goody. And what happens if R&R stumbles onto me while I’m down
there playing patty cake?”

“We disown you.”

“But you said an I-A ship found this joint.”

“It did. And then one of our spies in R&R intercepted a _routine_
request for an agent-instructor to be assigned here with full equipment.
Request signed by a First-Contact officer name of Diston ... of the
_Delphinus_!”

“But the Del—”

“Yeah. Missing. The request was a forgery. Now you see why I’m mostly
for rubbing out this place. Who’d dare forge such a thing unless he knew
for sure that the original FC officer was missing ... or dead?”

“What the jumped up mazoo are we doing here, Stet?” asked Orne. “Alien
calls for a full contact team with all of the—”

“It calls for one planet-buster bomb ... buster—in five days. Unless
you give them a white bill in the meantime. High Commissioner Bullone
will have word of this planet by then. If Gienah III still exists in
five days, can’t you imagine the fun the politicians’ll have with it?
Mama mia! We want this planet cleared for contact or dead before then.”

“I don’t like this, Stet.”

“YOU don’t like it!”

“Look,” said Orne. “There must be another way. Why ... when we teamed up
with the Alerinoids we gained five hundred years in the physical
sciences alone, not to mention the—”

“The Alerinoids didn’t knock over one of our survey ships first.”

“What if the _Delphinus_ just crashed here ... and the locals picked up
the pieces?”

“That’s what you’re going in to find out, Orne. But answer me this: If
they _do_ have the _Delphinus_, how long before a tool-using race could
be a threat to the galaxy?”

“I saw that city they built, Stet. They could be dug in within six
months, and there’d be no—”

“Yeah.”

Orne shook his head. “But think of it: Two civilizations that matured
along different lines! Think of all the different ways we’d approach the
same problems ... the lever that’d give us for—”

“You sound like a Uni-Galacta lecture! Are you through marching arm in
arm into the misty future?”

Orne took a deep breath. “Why’s a freshman like me being tossed into
this dish?”

“You’d still be on the _Delphinus_ master lists as an R&R field man.
That’s important if you’re masquerading.”

“Am I the only one? I know I’m a recent _convert_, but—”

“You want out?”

“I didn’t say that. I just want to know why I’m—”

“Because the bigdomes fed a set of requirements into one of their iron
monsters. Your card popped out. They were looking for somebody capable,
dependable ... and ... _expendable_!”

“Hey!”

“That’s why I’m down here briefing you instead of sitting back on a
flagship. _I_ got you into the I-A. Now, you listen carefully: If you
push the panic button on this one without cause, I will personally flay
you alive. We both know the advantages of an alien contact. But if you
get into a hot spot, and call for help, I’ll dive this cruiser into that
city to get you out!”

Orne swallowed. “Thanks, Stet. I’m—”

       *       *       *       *       *

“We’re going to take up a tight orbit. Out beyond us will be five
transports full of I-A marines and a Class IX Monitor with one
planet-buster. You’re calling the shots, God help you! First, we want to
know if they have the _Delphinus_ ... and if so, where it is. Next, we
want to know just how warlike these goons are. Can we control them if
they’re bloodthirsty. What’s their potential?”

“In five days?”

“Not a second more.”

“What do we know about them?”

“Not much. They look something like an ancient Terran chimpanzee ...
only with blue fur. Face is hairless, pink-skinned.” Stetson snapped a
switch. The translite map became a screen with a figure frozen on it.
“Like that. This is life size.”

“Looks like the missing link they’re always hunting for,” said Orne.
“Yeah, but you’ve got a different kind of a missing link.”

“Vertical-slit pupils in their eyes,” said Orne. He studied the figure.
It had been caught from the front by a mini-sneaker camera. About five
feet tall. The stance was slightly bent forward, long arms. Two vertical
nose slits. A flat, lipless mouth. Receding chin. Four-fingered hands.
It wore a wide belt from which dangled neat pouches and what looked like
tools, although their use was obscure. There appeared to be the tip of a
tail protruding from behind one of the squat legs. Behind the creature
towered the faery spires of the city they’d observed from the air.

“Tails?” asked Orne.

“Yeah. They’re arboreal. Not a road on the whole planet that we can
find. But there are lots of vine lanes through the jungles.” Stetson’s
face hardened. “Match _that_ with a city as advanced as that one.”

“Slave culture?”

“Probably.”

“How many cities have they?”

“We’ve found two. This one and another on the other side of the planet.
But the other one’s a ruin.”

“A ruin? Why?”

“You tell us. Lots of mysteries here.”

“What’s the planet like?”

“Mostly jungle. There are polar oceans, lakes and rivers. One low
mountain chain follows the equatorial belt about two thirds around the
planet.”

“But only two cities. Are you sure?”

“Reasonably so. It’d be pretty hard to miss something the size of that
thing we flew over. It must be fifty kilometers long and at least ten
wide. Swarming with these creatures, too. We’ve got a zone-count
estimate that places the city’s population at over thirty million.”

“Whee-ew! Those are tall buildings, too.”

“We don’t know much about this place, Orne. And unless you bring them
into the fold, there’ll be nothing but ashes for our archaeologists to
pick over.”

“Seems a dirty shame.”

“I agree, but—”

The call bell jangled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stetson’s voice sounded tired: “Yeah, Hal?”

“That mob’s only about five kilometers out, Stet. We’ve got Orne’s gear
outside in the disguised air sled.”

“We’ll be right down.”

“Why a disguised sled?” asked Orne.

“If they think it’s a ground buggy, they might get careless when you
most need an advantage. We could always scoop you out of the air, you
know.”

“What’re my chances on this one, Stet?”

Stetson shrugged. “I’m afraid they’re slim. These goons probably have
the _Delphinus_, and they want you just long enough to get your
equipment and everything you know.”

“Rough as that, eh?”

“According to our best guess. If you’re not out in five days, we blast.”

Orne cleared his throat.

“Want out?” asked Stetson.

“No.”

“Use the _back-door_ rule, son. Always leave yourself a way out. Now ...
let’s check that equipment the surgeons put in your neck.” Stetson put a
hand to his throat. His mouth remained closed, but there was a
surf-hissing voice in Orne’s ears: “You read me?”

“Sure. I can—”

“No!” hissed the voice. “Touch the mike contact. Keep your mouth closed.
Just use your speaking muscles without speaking.”

Orne obeyed.

“O.K.,” said Stetson. “You come in loud and clear.”

“I ought to. I’m right on top of you!”

“There’ll be a relay ship over you all the time,” said Stetson. “Now ...
when you’re not touching that mike contact this rig’ll still feed us
what you say ... and everything that goes on around you, too. We’ll
monitor everything. Got that?”

“Yes.”

Stetson held out his right hand. “Good luck. I meant that about diving
in for you. Just say the word.”

“I know the word, too,” said Orne. “HELP!”

       *       *       *       *       *

Gray mud floor and gloomy aisles between monstrous bluish tree
trunks—that was the jungle. Only the barest weak glimmering of sunlight
penetrated to the mud. The disguised sled—its para-grav units turned
off—lurched and skidded around buttress roots. Its headlights swung in
wild arcs across the trunks and down to the mud. Aerial creepers—great
looping vines of them—swung down from the towering forest ceiling. A
steady drip of condensation spattered the windshield, forcing Orne to
use the wipers.

In the bucket seat of the sled’s cab, Orne fought the controls. He was
plagued by the vague slow-motion-floating sensation that a heavy planet
native always feels in lighter gravity. It gave him an unhappy stomach.

Things skipped through the air around the lurching vehicle: flitting and
darting things. Insects came in twin cones, siphoned toward the
headlights. There was an endless chittering whistling tok-tok-toking in
the gloom beyond the lights.

Stetson’s voice hissed suddenly through the surgically implanted
speaker: “How’s it look?”

“Alien.”

“Any sign of that mob?”

“Negative.”

“O.K. We’re taking off.”

Behind Orne, there came a deep rumbling roar that receded as the scout
cruiser climbed its jets. All other sounds hung suspended in
after-silence, then resumed: the strongest first and then the weakest.

A heavy object suddenly arced through the headlights, swinging on a
vine. It disappeared behind a tree. Another. Another. Ghostly shadows
with vine pendulums on both sides. Something banged down heavily onto
the hood of the sled.

[Illustration]

Orne braked to a creaking stop that shifted the load behind him, found
himself staring through the windshield at a native of Gienah III. The
native crouched on the hood, a Mark XX exploding-pellet rifle in his
right hand directed at Orne’s head. In the abrupt shock of meeting, Orne
recognized the weapon: standard issue to the marine guards on all R&R
survey ships.

The native appeared the twin of the one Orne had seen on the translite
screen. The four-fingered hand looked extremely capable around the stock
of the Mark XX.

Slowly, Orne put a hand to his throat, pressed the contact button. He
moved his speaking muscles: _“Just made contact with the mob. One on the
hood now has one of our Mark XX rifles aimed at my head.”_

The surf-hissing of Stetson’s voice came through the hidden speaker:
_“Want us to come back?”_

_“Negative. Stand by. He looks cautious rather than hostile.”_

Orne held up his right hand, palm out. He had a second thought: held up
his left hand, too. Universal symbol of peaceful intentions: empty
hands. The gun muzzle lowered slightly. Orne called into his mind the
language that had been hypnoforced into him. _Ocheero? No. That means
‘The People.’ Ah ..._ And he had the heavy fricative greeting sound.

“Ffroiragrazzi,” he said.

The native shifted to the left, answered in pure, unaccented High
Galactese: “Who are you?”

Orne fought down a sudden panic. The lipless mouth had looked so odd
forming the familiar words.

Stetson’s voice hissed: _“Is that the native speaking Galactese?”_

Orne touched his throat. _“You heard him.”_

He dropped his hand, said: “I am Lewis Orne of Rediscovery and
Reeducation. I was sent here at the request of the First-Contact officer
on the _Delphinus Rediscovery_.”

“Where is your ship?” demanded the Gienahn.

“It put me down and left.”

“Why?”

“It was behind schedule for another appointment.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Out of the corners of his eyes, Orne saw more shadows dropping to the
mud around him. The sled shifted as someone climbed onto the load behind
the cab. The someone scuttled agilely for a moment.

The native climbed down to the cab’s side step, opened the door. The
rifle was held at the ready. Again, the lipless mouth formed Galactese
words: “What do you carry in this ... vehicle?”

“The equipment every R&R field man uses to help the people of a
rediscovered planet improve themselves.” Orne nodded at the rifle.
“Would you mind pointing that weapon some other direction? It makes me
nervous.”

The gun muzzle remained unwaveringly on Orne’s middle. The native’s
mouth opened, revealing long canines. “Do we not look strange to you?”

“I take it there’s been a heavy mutational variation in the humanoid
norm on this planet,” said Orne. “What is it? Hard radiation?”

No answer.

“It doesn’t really make any difference, of course,” said Orne. “I’m here
to help you.”

“I am Tanub, High Path Chief of the Grazzi,” said the native. “I decide
who is to help.”

Orne swallowed.

“Where do you go?” demanded Tanub.

“I was hoping to go to your city. Is it permitted?”

A long pause while the vertical-slit pupils of Tanub’s eyes expanded and
contracted. “It is permitted.”

Stetson’s voice came through the hidden speaker: _“All bets off. We’re
coming in after you. That Mark XX is the final straw. It means they have
the_ Delphinus _for sure!”_

Orne touched his throat. _“No! Give me a little more time!”_

_“Why?”_

_“I have a hunch about these creatures.”_

_“What is it?”_

_“No time now. Trust me.”_

Another long pause in which Orne and Tanub continued to study each
other. Presently, Stetson said: _“O.K. Go ahead as planned. But find out
where the_ Delphinus _is! If we get that back we pull their teeth.”_

“Why do you keep touching your throat?” demanded Tanub.

“I’m nervous,” said Orne. “Guns always make me nervous.”

The muzzle lowered slightly.

“Shall we continue on to your city?” asked Orne. He wet his lips with
his tongue. The cab light on Tanub’s face was giving the Gienahn an
eerie sinister look.

“We can go soon,” said Tanub.

“Will you join me inside here?” asked Orne. “There’s a passenger seat
right behind me.”

Tanub’s eyes moved catlike: right, left. “Yes.” He turned, barked an
order into the jungle gloom, then climbed in behind Orne.

“When do we go?” asked Orne.

“The great sun will be down soon,” said Tanub. “We can continue as soon
as Chiranachuruso rises.”

“Chiranachuruso?”

“Our satellite ... our moon,” said Tanub.

“It’s a beautiful word,” said Orne. “Chiranachuruso.”

“In our tongue it means: The Limb of Victory,” said Tanub. “By its light
we will continue.”

Orne turned, looked back at Tanub. “Do you mean to tell me that you can
see by what light gets down here through those trees?”

“Can you not see?” asked Tanub.

“Not without the headlights.”

“Our eyes differ,” said Tanub. He bent toward Orne, peered. The vertical
slit pupils of his eyes expanded, contracted. “You are the same as the
... others.”

“Oh, on the _Delphinus_?”

Pause. “Yes.”

Presently, a greater gloom came over the jungle, bringing a sudden
stillness to the wild life. There was a chittering commotion from the
natives in the trees around the sled. Tanub shifted behind Orne.

“We may go now,” he said. “Slowly ... to stay behind my ... scouts.”

“Right.” Orne eased the sled forward around an obstructing root.

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence while they crawled ahead. Around them shapes flung themselves
from vine to vine.

“I admired your city from the air,” said Orne. “It is very beautiful.”

“Yes,” said Tanub. “Why did you land so far from it?”

“We didn’t want to come down where we might destroy anything.”

“There is nothing to destroy in the jungle,” said Tanub.

“Why do you have such a big city?” asked Orne.

Silence.

“I said: Why do you—”

“You are ignorant of our ways,” said Tanub. “Therefore, I forgive you.
The city is for our race. We must breed and be born in sunlight.
Once—long ago—we used crude platforms on the tops of the trees. Now
... only the ... wild ones do this.”

Stetson’s voice hissed in Orne’s ears: _“Easy on the sex line, boy.
That’s always touchy. These creatures are oviparous. Sex glands are
apparently hidden in that long fur behind where their chins ought to
be.”_

“Who controls the breeding sites controls our world,” said Tanub. “Once
there was another city. We destroyed it.”

“Are there many ... wild ones?” asked Orne.

“Fewer each year,” said Tanub.

_“There’s how they get their slaves,”_ hissed Stetson.

“You speak excellent Galactese,” said Orne.

“The High Path Chief commanded the best teacher,” said Tanub. “Do you,
too, know many things, Orne?”

“That’s why I was sent here,” said Orne.

“Are there many planets to teach?” asked Tanub.

“Very many,” said Orne. “Your city—I saw very tall buildings. Of what
do you build them?”

“In your tongue—glass,” said Tanub. “The engineers of the _Delphinus_
said it was impossible. As you saw—they are wrong.”

_“A glass-blowing culture,”_ hissed Stetson. _“That’d explain a lot of
things.”_

Slowly, the disguised sled crept through the jungle. Once, a scout
swooped down into the headlights, waved. Orne stopped on Tanub’s order,
and they waited almost ten minutes before proceeding.

“Wild ones?” asked Orne.

“Perhaps,” said Tanub.

A glowing of many lights grew visible through the giant tree trunks. It
grew brighter as the sled crept through the last of the jungle, emerged
in cleared land at the edge of the city.

Orne stared upward in awe. The city fluted and spiraled into the moonlit
sky. It was a fragile appearing lacery of bridges, winking dots of
light. The bridges wove back and forth from building to building until
the entire visible network appeared one gigantic dew-glittering web.

“All that with glass,” murmured Orne.

_“What’s happening?”_ hissed Stetson.

Orne touched his throat contact. _“We’re just into the city clearing,
proceeding toward the nearest building.”_

“This is far enough,” said Tanub.

       *       *       *       *       *

Orne stopped the sled. In the moonlight, he could see armed Gienahns all
around. The buttressed pedestal of one of the buildings loomed directly
ahead. It looked taller than had the scout cruiser in its jungle landing
circle.

Tanub leaned close to Orne’s shoulder. “We have not deceived you, have
we, Orne?”

“Huh? What do you mean?”

“You have recognized that we are not mutated members of your race.”

Orne swallowed. Into his ears came Stetson’s voice: _“Better admit it.”_

“That’s true,” said Orne.

“I like you, Orne,” said Tanub. “You shall be one of my slaves. You will
teach me many things.”

“How did you capture the _Delphinus_?” asked Orne.

“You know that, too?”

“You have one of their rifles,” said Orne.

“Your race is no match for us, Orne ... in cunning, in strength, in the
prowess of the mind. Your ship landed to repair its tubes. Very inferior
ceramics in those tubes.”

Orne turned, looked at Tanub in the dim glow of the cab light. “Have you
heard about the I-A, Tanub?”

“I-A? What is that?” There was a wary tenseness in the Gienahn’s figure.
His mouth opened to reveal the long canines.

“You took the _Delphinus_ by treachery?” asked Orne.

“They were simple fools,” said Tanub. “We are smaller, thus they thought
us weaker.” The Mark XX’s muzzle came around to center on Orne’s
stomach. “You have not answered my question. What is the I-A?”

“I am of the I-A,” said Orne. “Where’ve you hidden the _Delphinus_?”

“In the place that suits us best,” said Tanub. “In all our history there
has never been a better place.”

“What do you plan to do with it?” asked Orne.

“Within a year we will have a copy with our own improvements. After
that—”

“You intend to start a war?” asked Orne.

“In the jungle the strong slay the weak until only the strong remain,”
said Tanub.

“And then the strong prey upon each other?” asked Orne.

“That is a quibble for women,” said Tanub.

“It’s too bad you feel that way,” said Orne. “When two cultures meet
like this they tend to help each other. What have you done with the crew
of the _Delphinus_?”

“They are slaves,” said Tanub. “Those who still live. Some resisted.
Others objected to teaching us what we want to know.” He waved the gun
muzzle. “You will not be that foolish, will you, Orne?”

“No need to be,” said Orne. “I’ve another little lesson to teach you: I
already know where you’ve hidden the _Delphinus_.”

_“Go, boy!”_ hissed Stetson. _“Where is it?”_

“Impossible!” barked Tanub.

“It’s on your moon,” said Orne. “Darkside. It’s on a mountain on the
darkside of your moon.”

Tanub’s eyes dilated, contracted. “You read minds?”

“The I-A has no need to read minds,” said Orne. “We rely on superior
mental prowess.”

_“The marines are on their way,”_ hissed Stetson. _“We’re coming in to
get you. I’m going to want to know how you guessed that one.”_

“You are a weak fool like the others,” gritted Tanub.

“It’s too bad you formed your opinion of us by observing only the low
grades of the R&R,” said Orne.

_“Easy, boy,”_ hissed Stetson. _“Don’t pick a fight with him now.
Remember, his race is arboreal. He’s probably as strong as an ape.”_

“I could kill you where you sit!” grated Tanub.

“You write finish for your entire planet if you do,” said Orne. “I’m not
alone. There are others listening to every word we say. There’s a ship
overhead that could split open your planet with one bomb—wash it with
molten rock. It’d run like the glass you use for your buildings.”

“You are lying!”

“We’ll make you an offer,” said Orne. “We don’t really want to
exterminate you. We’ll give you limited membership in the Galactic
Federation until you prove you’re no menace to us.”

_“Keep talking,”_ hissed Stetson. _“Keep him interested.”_

“You dare insult me!” growled Tanub.

“You had better believe me,” said Orne. “We—”

Stetson’s voice interrupted him: _“Got it, Orne! They caught the_
Delphinus _on the ground right where you said it’d be! Blew the tubes
off it. Marines now mopping up.”_

“It’s like this,” said Orne. “We already have recaptured the
_Delphinus_.” Tanub’s eyes went instinctively skyward. “Except for the
captured armament you still hold, you obviously don’t have the weapons
to meet us,” continued Orne. “Otherwise, you wouldn’t be carrying that
rifle off the _Delphinus_.”

“If you speak the truth, then we shall die bravely,” said Tanub.

“No need for you to die,” said Orne.

“Better to die than be slaves,” said Tanub.

“We don’t need slaves,” said Orne. “We—”

“I cannot take the chance that you are lying,” said Tanub. “I must kill
you now.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Orne’s foot rested on the air sled control pedal. He depressed it.
Instantly, the sled shot skyward, heavy G’s pressing them down into the
seats. The gun in Tanub’s hands was slammed into his lap. He struggled
to raise it. To Orne, the weight was still only about twice that of his
home planet of Chargon. He reached over, took the rifle, found safety
belts, bound Tanub with them. Then he eased off the acceleration.

“We don’t need slaves,” said Orne. “We have machines to do our work.
We’ll send experts in here, teach you people how to exploit your planet,
how to build good transportation facilities, show you how to mine your
minerals, how to—”

“And what do we do in return?” whispered Tanub.

“You could start by teaching us how you make superior glass,” said Orne.
“I certainly hope you see things our way. We really don’t want to have
to come down there and clean you out. It’d be a shame to have to blast
that city into little pieces.”

Tanub wilted. Presently, he said: “Send me back. I will discuss this
with ... our council.” He stared at Orne. “You I-A’s are too strong. We
did not know.”

       *       *       *       *       *

In the wardroom of Stetson’s scout cruiser, the lights were low, the
leather chairs comfortable, the green beige table set with a decanter of
Hochar brandy and two glasses.

Orne lifted his glass, sipped the liquor, smacked his lips. “For a while
there, I thought I’d never be tasting anything like this again.”

Stetson took his own glass. “ComGO heard the whole thing over the
general monitor net,” he said. “D’you know you’ve been breveted to
senior field man?”

“Ah, they’ve already recognized my sterling worth,” said Orne.

The wolfish grin took over Stetson’s big features. “Senior field men
last about half as long as the juniors,” he said. “Mortality’s
terrific?”

“I might’ve known,” said Orne. He took another sip of the brandy.

Stetson flicked on the switch of a recorder beside him. “O.K. You can go
ahead any time.”

“Where do you want me to start?”

“First, how’d you spot right away where they’d hidden the _Delphinus_?”

“Easy. Tanub’s word for his people was _Grazzi_. Most races call
themselves something meaning _The People_. But in his tongue that’s
_Ocheero_. _Grazzi_ wasn’t on the translated list. I started working on
it. The most likely answer was that it had been adopted from another
language, and meant _enemy_.”

“And _that_ told you where the _Delphinus_ was?”

“No. But it fitted my hunch about these Gienahns. I’d kind of felt from
the first minute of meeting them that they had a culture like the
Indians of ancient Terra.”

“Why?”

“They came in like a primitive raiding party. The leader dropped right
onto the hood of my sled. An act of bravery, no less. Counting coup, you
see?”

“I guess so.”

“Then he said he was High Path Chief. That wasn’t on the language list,
either. But it was easy: _Raider Chief._ There’s a word in almost every
language in history that means raider and derives from a word for road,
path or highway.”

“Highwaymen,” said Stetson.

“Raid itself,” said Orne. “An ancient Terran language corruption of
road.”

“Yeah, yeah. But where’d all this translation griff put—”

“Don’t be impatient. Glass-blowing culture meant they were just out of
the primitive stage. That, we could control. Next, he said their moon
was _Chiranachuruso_, translated as _The Limb of Victory_. After that it
just fell into place.”

“How?”

“The vertical-slit pupils of their eyes. Doesn’t that mean anything to
you?”

“Maybe. What’s it mean to you?”

“Night-hunting predator accustomed to dropping upon its victims from
above. No other type of creature ever has had the vertical slit. And
Tanub said himself that the _Delphinus_ was hidden in the best place in
all of their history. History? That’d be a high place. Dark, likewise.
Ergo: a high place on the darkside of their moon.”

“I’m a pie-eyed greepus,” whispered Stetson.

Orne grinned, said: “You probably are ... sir.”


THE END



Transcriber’s Notes: The table below lists all corrections applied to
the original text.

p. 102: [normalized] ComGo -> ComGO
p. 103: net of snakers -> sneakers
p. 105: [removed extra quote] “Orne swallowed
p. 111: [added closing quote] “A glass-blowing culture,”





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Missing Link, by Frank Patrick Herbert

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MISSING LINK ***

***** This file should be named 23210-0.txt or 23210-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/2/1/23210/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Bruce Albrecht, Markus Brenner and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
