The Project Gutenberg eBook, Frank Reade, Jr.'s Search for the Silver
Whale, by Luis Senarens


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Frank Reade, Jr.'s Search for the Silver Whale
       Under the Ocean in the Electric "Dolphin"


Author: Luis Senarens



Release Date: September 16, 2017  [eBook #55562]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANK READE, JR.'S SEARCH FOR THE
SILVER WHALE***


E-text prepared by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made available by
Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 55562-h.htm or 55562-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/55562/55562-h/55562-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/55562/55562-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/FrankReadeweekl00SenaF


Transcriber's note:

      Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.

      Enclosed bold font in =equals=.





[Illustration: FRANK READE WEEKLY MAGAZINE Containing Stories of
Adventures on Land, Sea & in the Air]

  _Issued Weekly—By Subscription $2.50 per year. Application made for
               Second-Class Entry at N. Y. Post-Office._
 No. 44.               NEW YORK, AUGUST 28, 1903.        Price 5 Cents.

[Illustration: Frank Reade, Jr’s SEARCH FOR THE SILVER WHALE¡ or, Under
the Ocean in the Electric “Dolphin.” By “NONAME.”]

  Frank and Stanhope were ready to take care of themselves. As the shark
 descended upon them both crouched low. The creature’s open jaws were not
    four feet from Frank when he buried the pike in the shark’s body.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              FRANK READE

                            WEEKLY MAGAZINE.

     CONTAINING STORIES OF ADVENTURES ON LAND, SEA AND IN THE AIR.

  _Issued Weekly—By Subscription $2.50 per year. Application made for
    Second Class entry at the New York, N. Y., Post Office Entered,
  according to Act of Congress in the year 1903, in the office of the
   Librarian of Congress, Washington, D. C. by Frank Tousey, 24 Union
                           Square, New York._

 =No. 44.=             NEW YORK, AUGUST 28, 1903.      =Price 5 Cents.=




            Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for the Silver Whale;
                                  OR,
               UNDER THE OCEAN IN THE ELECTRIC “DOLPHIN”.


                              By “NONAME.”




                                CONTENTS


              CHAPTER    I. THE INVENTOR AND THE EXPLORER.
              CHAPTER   II. STANHOPE IS SATISFIED.
              CHAPTER  III. THE VOYAGE BEGUN.
              CHAPTER   IV. THE SUNKEN WRECK—THE SHARK.
              CHAPTER    V. BATTLE WITH A WHALE.
              CHAPTER   VI. THE ENGLISH SHIP.
              CHAPTER  VII. CHASING THE SILVER WHALE.
              CHAPTER VIII. THE CONFESSION FOUND.
              CHAPTER   IX. THE VALLEY OF PEARLS.
              CHAPTER    X. THE STORM.
              CHAPTER   XI. THE ISLAND—ON A REEF.
              CHAPTER  XII. CASTAWAY—RESCUE.
              CHAPTER XIII. THE END.




                               CHAPTER I.
                     THE INVENTOR AND THE EXPLORER.


“A submarine boat? Do you really mean it, Frank? I trust you are not
becoming mentally unbalanced with the success of your inventive efforts.
Not content with the Electric Air-ship, you now meditate the
construction of a submarine vessel.”

“That is what I said, friend Stanhope.”

“But, pshaw, man! Do you realize what an impossible feat that is?”

“I realize only that it is quite possible,” replied the young inventor,
imperturbably.

“And you are really in earnest?”

“As much as I ever was in my life.”

George Stanhope, explorer and geologist, and a handsome, well developed
American, of forty years, of varied experiences, sat quite still for a
moment and studied the features of his companion.

This was Frank Reade, Jr., of Readestown, U. S. A., the most famous man
in the inventive line of the present generation.

Despite his youth, he had brought to perfection some of the most
wonderful and gigantic of enterprises.

At the moment the two men were sitting in the smoking room of the
Southern Hotel in New Orleans.

It was while discussing various topics that the subject of the submarine
boat was broached.

At once Stanhope was interested and incredulous.

He listened to Frank’s theories for awhile, then began to express his
incredulity.

And thus we find them arguing the matter at the opening of our story.

“You may be in earnest, Frank,” said the explorer, with a laugh, “but I
think you have tackled a pretty difficult subject. Don’t you agree with
me?”

Frank smiled.

“It is not so difficult to solve submarine navigation as aerial flight,”
he said; “there is enough in Nature to teach us how the problem may be
accomplished.”

“Ah, but it is impossible to always copy Nature.”

“Yet we may draw our plans from her liberal sources.”

“In what way has Nature assisted you in your plan of submarine
navigation?”

“She has given me a model.”

“A model?”

“Yes.”

“How is that?”

“In the salt water there swims a fish called the bream, or sunfish. He
is at once the most buoyant and generally agile of fish. He will furnish
my model.”

“So you propose to model your boat after a fish?”

“Why not? All the necessary points may be obtained from the fish. For
instance, I shall have in my boat a system of air reservoirs akin to the
bladders of the fish, for the purpose of arising or descending, as
necessity may require. Fins shall preserve the equilibrium, and a screw
shall furnish the motive power. What more do I want?”

“How will you live without oxygen?”

“I shall have plenty of oxygen. I have already devised a system of
electric and chemical generators which destroy the poisonous gases as
readily as they create pure air. This will enable a perfect circulation
to be kept up aboard the craft.”

Stanhope drew a deep breath and knocked the ashes from his cigar.

“You are too deep for me, Frank,” he said, sententiously. “To use a slang
phrase—I am not in it. I wish you success in your emulation of Captain
Nemo.”

“It is possible that I may fail,” said the young inventor, consulting
his watch, “but I shall endeavor to win success.”

“I hope you may.”

“I have now to leave to catch my train. I bid you goodbye.”

“Wait!”

Stanhope seized Frank’s hand.

“I want to ask a favor.”

“Well?”

“When you get ready to start your submarine boat will you grant me
permission to accompany you on the trial trip?”

“Have you considered the risk?”

“What?”

“Suppose it sinks and never rises?”

“Pshaw!” exclaimed Stanhope; “do you think I am a soft head? Have I
braved the life of the deadly jungle and the pestilential rivers of
India to stand in fear of death in such a manner? Have I your
permission?”

Frank shook the explorer’s hand.

“Certainly,” he said, warmly. “I shall be very glad of your company. I
am going home now to begin work on my new venture. When it is completed
I will wire you to come.”

“That settles it!” cried Stanhope. “I will live in expectation.”

“It may require many weeks to perfect the boat.”

“All right. I will live in patience.”

Thus the two men parted.

They were kindred spirits though each was cast in a different mold. The
inventor and the explorer; how fitting it was that they should
affiliate.

Stanhope proceeded at once to New York where he was to fulfill a lecture
course on Africa.

Frank Reade, Jr., went straight to Readestown, where he at once closeted
himself, and for several days was hardly seen.

When he emerged at length from his seclusion he had the plans of his new
invention all perfected.

All that was necessary now was to construct the boat.

He a once conferred with his engineers and machinists. The result was
that a large gang of skilled workmen were quickly engaged in the
construction of the Dolphin, which was the name Frank gave the craft.

In some manner news of the projected boat leaked out, and it became
known all over the country that Frank Reade, Jr., was about to present
to the world the greatest triumph of mechanical science ever known.

Of course the whole country was agog with interest.

Frank had scores of letters asking various privileges, all of which of
course he refused.

The weeks passed by and progress on the Dolphin was very rapid.

In Frank’s employ were two peculiar characters. One was a red-headed
Irishman of the Tipperary type named Barney O’Shea. The other was a
comical darky of the old plantation species named Pomp.

Pomp and Barney were Frank Reade, Jr.’s most valued servants.

They had accompanied him on all his travels, shared dangers, hardships
and triumphs with him.

They were deeply devoted to their handsome and accomplished young
master, and clung to him closely.

They were delighted with the prospect of a deep-sea cruise.

“Begorra, I’ll make love to the bootiful mermaids an’ hobnob wid Neptune
himself, bad cess to him!” cried Barney, gleefully. “Shure, it’ll be
foine sport to go a-fishin’ for whales an’ porpuses down there, naygur.”

“Golly!” rejoined Pomp, as he threw a flip-flap, “I don’ fink yo’ want
to fish much fo’ whales, sonny! Dey pull yo’ ober into de watah fo’
suah!”

“How the divil will they do that, yez black ape?” roared Barney. “Don’t
yez see that we’re undher wather anyway?”

“Mebbe dat whale swallow yo’, den.”

“Bejabers, he cudn’t swally me an’ ther boat too, yez ignyramus!”

Pomp scratched his woolly head.

“Wha’ dat yo’ call me, chile?” he asked. “Am I a lily igglylamus? I done
fink dat yo’ call me somefin’ else afo’ I get froo wif yo’. Ki dar!”

And Pomp made a rush for his colleague. They closed in a lively wrestle.

While the warmest of friends, both were addicted to the habit of
practical joking. Each loved to play pranks upon the other.

“Begorra, yez haven’t got the sand to trow me off me feet, naygur!”
roared Barney, as they wrestled. “Whurroo! Over yez go!”

But as Pomp went down he brought Barney also, and thus the unequal
struggle went on.

It was terminated finally by the appearance of Frank Reade, Jr., on the
scene.

Finally the last bolt was driven, the last rivet cut, and the Dolphin
floated in the waters of the big tank, completed.

Then Frank sent a telegram to New York, worded thus:

                  *       *       *       *       *

DEAR STANHOPE,—The Dolphin is finished. If you wish to participate in
the trial trip, report at once. Shall expect you by Thursday sure.
Please reply. Yours ever,

                                                        FRANK READE, JR.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Promptly Stanhope appeared in Readestown Thursday of that week. He went
at once to the machine shops.

He found Frank there awaiting him. They shook hands warmly.

“You are on hand promptly,” said Frank, “but I think I can give you a
great surprise.”

“Then the submarine boat is an accomplished fact?”

“Yes.”

“I am curious to see the great wonder.”

“You shall have your wish gratified.”

They left the office and went at once out into the yard.

Frank led the way to the tank, an immense affair with a depth of forty
feet, sufficient to float a war cruiser.

This tank, or artificial pond, was connected with a deep canal by a gate
and locks.

Passing through the canal, the river could be reached in a short while,
and thence a course was open to the sea.

In the tank floated like a cork the beautiful triumph of a mighty
inventive genius, the submarine boat.

It was truly a beautiful specimen of marine architecture, though totally
unlike the general run of sea craft.

There were no sails or visible means of propulsion. No high decks or
bulwarks, but a hull wonderful in its symmetry.

The Dolphin was built much upon the lines of the salt water bream, and
was as buoyant and light as could be desired.

Stanhope stood upon the edge of the tank for some while regarding the
new craft with interest and wonderment.

Then Frank advanced and said briskly:

“Well, George, what do you think of it?”

The explorer was silent a moment; then he said:

“It looks feasible from here.”

Frank laughed heartily.

“You must come aboard,” he said, “and then I think your doubts will
forever be set at rest upon that point. Are you quite ready?”

“Oh, yes,” replied Stanhope.

“Then follow me.”




                              CHAPTER II.
                         STANHOPE IS SATISFIED.


Frank Reade, Jr., led the way aboard the Dolphin without further delay.
A portable platform extended along the side, which was provided with a
handrail.

Frank explained this.

“You see this is provided with joints and hinges,” he said. “When the
boat gets into motion this is easily folded up against the side of the
boat, making the hull smooth, so that it offers no resistance to swift
passage through the water.”

In the hull was cut a door, which opened by pressure upon an electric
spring.

Its existence might never have been suspected at a cursory glance. The
section of windows along each side were the same.

The body or hull of the Dolphin was composed of thin plates of steel
closely riveted together. They were tough and capable of resisting a
great pressure.

The hull was especially constructed for descending to great depths,
where the pressure was liable to be very great.

The stern of the Dolphin was shaped like the broad tail of a fish.
Beneath it was the rudder and screw propeller.

Lateral fins served to keep the boat’s equilibrium.

Forward were two huge bull’s-eye windows in which were set powerful
searchlights.

In general this was a description of the exterior of the Dolphin. They
now passed into the interior.

Passing through the door, which could be hermetically sealed in an
instant, if necessary, they stood in a sort of vestibule.

A door led into the cabin. Here Frank paused and said:

“This is the vestibule. By its means one can leave the boat while it is
under water.”

“Leave the boat while under water!” exclaimed Stanhope in surprise. “How
on earth can you do that?”

“Easily enough,” replied Frank. “I have a diving suit with a storage
tank and a generator connected with the helmet. By its means I can
travel anywhere under water.”

“A diving suit!”

“Exactly.”

“That will do. But how can you open the door to leave the boat without
flooding it?”

“By means of this vestibule.”

Frank placed his hands upon a stopcock; then he continued:

“If you wish to leave the boat, you enter the vestibule from the cabin,
presuming that your diving suit is on. You close the cabin door behind
you, open this valve, the vestibule fills with water. You open the outer
door and walk out. When, you wish to return, simply enter the vestibule,
close the outer door, then press this second valve. At once the water is
pumped out of the vestibule by pneumatic pressure. When it is empty you
may safely enter the cabin. See the idea?”

“Very simple,” agreed Stanhope; “but very ingenious. Lead on.”

They now passed into the cabin.

This was a literal revelation. The famous explorer gazed upon the scene
with the deepest of admiration.

“I am captivated!” he declared. “It exceeds my most sanguine hopes.
Frank, it is grand!”

The young inventor was much pleased with this rhapsody.

“I thought you would like it,” he said.

The cabin was furnished with the elegance of a fashionable salon.
Expensive furnishing and draperies played their part.

Along the walls of the cabin extended the tubes of the generator which
supplied the boat with pure air while under water.

These and the generator were examined curiously by Stanhope. Then they
passed on into the living compartments of the boat, and thence to the
engine-room.

Here was all the delicate electric machinery which furnished the motive
power of the boat.

It was carefully inspected, as well as the mechanism of the reservoirs
which regulated the descent and ascent of the Dolphin.

Then Frank led Stanhope to a neat little stateroom with a luxurious
couch and said:

“These are your quarters, George. I trust they will suit you.”

“Well, I should say so!” cried the explorer. “You are too kind to me,
Frank. This will be the greatest treat of my life.”

“Now,” said Frank, “I will demonstrate to you that the Dolphin is a
submarine boat.”

“That is all that is left to be done,” said Stanhope: “You have verified
everything else.”

“When I have proved to you the ability of the boat to travel under
water, then will you be satisfied?”

“Perfectly.”

Frank shouted to Barney, who was forward in the pilot-house.

“Barney!”

“Ay, sor!” replied the Celt.

“Press valve No. ten, and switch off lever No. six.”

“All roight, sor.”

“Valve ten will hermetically seal every door and window,” explained
Frank; “then lever six will open the sinking reservoir and we will go
down.”

“Good!”

“If you are at all doubtful of the result, you shall witness the trial
from the shore.”

“Never!” cried Stanhope, forcibly.

“All right, George.”

Suddenly the light in the cabin faded. There was a sinking sensation and
all was deep gloom.

Then Frank shouted:

“Press key four, Barney.”

The Celt obeyed.

Instantly there was a flood of light in the cabin. Electric globes
blazed in various quarters, and illumined the bottom of the tank as the
boat reached it.

There was a gentle shock, and then the window shutters slid back. A fine
view of the bed of the tank was had.

Stanhope gazed upon the spectacle with interest and wonderment.

He breathed as freely and regularly as ever, and the chemical air of the
boat seemed fully as good as that of the upper part of the world.

For fully half an hour the boat remained at the bottom of the tank. The
generators were a complete success.

Then Stanhope said:

“I am satisfied, Frank, that one could live indefinitely under water
with your generator.”

“I am glad of that,” said Frank. “Now I will prove to you that the
Dolphin can travel under water.”

This time Frank stepped into the pilot-house, and took the wheel. He
pressed a key, which set the propellers in motion. Then the Dolphin
glided forward.

Round and round the tank went the submarine boat.

Stanhope’s last doubt was removed. He caught Frank’s hands and wrung
them.

“Enough!” he cried. “The submarine boat is a success. It will be the
wonder of the world. Let us be off.”

“For the ocean?”

“Yes.”

“But,” said Frank, thoughtfully, “we ought to have some object in view.”

“I have one.”

“You have?”

“Yes.”

“What is it?”

“Come with me and I will tell you.”

The Dolphin had returned to the surface and lay along the side of the
tank. Stanhope led the way from the boat and thence to the office.

Then he threw himself into a chair which was drawn up to a table.

Frank seated himself opposite.

Stanhope drew some papers from his pocket. He spread them out.

“You will see that this is a chart of the Pacific,” he said. “Here is a
point westward from the Aleutian Isles which I have marked.”

Frank noted this.

“Now,” continued the great explorer, “I have a very strange story to
tell you of this part of the sea.

“The story was given me by Captain Barclay, of the brig Helen, of San
Francisco. It sounds like a fairy story.

“The Helen had left Calcutta six months previous and was in these waters
through force of circumstances, having been blown thither by a terrific
hurricane of a week’s duration.

“This had brought them into sealing waters. As the brig had run short of
provisions, Captain Barclay decided to kill some seals for meat.

“Accordingly the boat was ordered out. The seals were quite plentiful,
and it was easy to shoot them in the water, and by quick work secure
them before they should sink.

“The boat’s crew were thus engaged when suddenly a thrilling thing
occurred.

“It was a catastrophe wholly unlooked for and resulted most seriously
for at least one member of the crew.

“This was Albert Tucker, the first mate, who was thrown far from the
boat by a sudden shock. Some heavy body struck the boat and smashed it.
In an instant the crew were struggling in the water.

“All but Tucker succeeded in getting upon the overturned long boat, and
were rescued later by a relief party from the ship.

“Tucker’s fate was fearful. He was struggling in the water one hundred
yards to leeward, and every man on the wrecked boat could see him, when
an immense white body rose from the water.

“It was a tremendous whale of the very rare silver or white species. It
rose close to the swimming man. We saw its huge mouth open, and
then—Tucker disappeared from view.

“Now, the white or silver whale, so called, is really a tremendous
species of shark.

“Of course all knew that Tucker had been swallowed by the monster. They
feared for themselves, but the creature did not venture to attack them.”

Frank had listened to the narrative with interest, but he said:

“That is a thrilling story. But how can we do Tucker any good now?”

“We cannot, of course,” replied the explorer. “But I have not told you
all yet. There is an under plot.”

“Indeed!”

“You see, Tucker was no ordinary man. A year previous he and his brother
Valentine were prosperous in business in San Francisco. One day,
Valentine had trouble with a bookkeeper in his employ and discharged
him.

“Albert was a bachelor, but Valentine had a family, a happy wife and
small children.

“The bookkeeper, Alden Vance, had threatened Valentine’s life, and the
fact was well known that the feeling between them was not of the
pleasantest.

“Vance was extremely dissipated, and had for a crony a low-browed
ex-gambler, Duncan Crane. Thus matters stood when San Francisco one day
was startled with a fearful horror.

“Valentine Tucker, going home from his business late one night, heard an
awful cry of human agony from a narrow street near by.




                              CHAPTER III.
                           THE VOYAGE BEGUN.


“Valentine Tucker was a man of impulse and never hesitated when he knew
that a fellow being was in distress.

“He rushed into the street in time to see one man fall and another
skurry away in the gloom.

“Feeling sure of foul play he knelt over the prostrate man and felt for
his heart, as he did so his hand closed upon the handle of a dagger.

“With a sense of horror, not knowing what he did, he pulled it from the
wound. The red blood dyed his sleeve and arm.

“Before he could rise to his feet and sound an alarm, lights flashed
about him and he was in the grip of officers of the law.

“Caught thus apparently red-handed, the crime was fastened upon him.
There seemed no way for him to prove his innocence.

“Furthermore, the fact that the dead man was Alden Vance was decidedly
against him. He was thrown into prison, tried and convicted of murder.

“It was an awful fatality. At once the business so prosperous declined,
and Albert was forced to retire at a heavy loss. But he was faithful to
his brother.

“He avowed his intention of proving his brother’s innocence. There was
no one upon whom suspicion could fall save Duncan Crane, who had
disappeared.

“This fact was the saving of Valentine’s life. In view of the
possibility that Crane might be implicated, the judge was lenient, and
commuted the sentence of death to life imprisonment.

“Of course this was little better than death, but it gave Albert his
chance.

“He at once started upon the track of Crane. To Hawaii, to Yokohama, he
tracked the wretch.

“Here the real murderer was stricken with the plague. Upon his death-bed
he made full and absolute confession.

“It was duly written out and witnessed by the American Consul. Armed
with this proof of his brother’s innocence, Albert started for home.

“He was happy in the thought that his brother would be vindicated upon
his arrival in San Francisco.

“But alas for his hopes. Fate had decreed that the confession should
never get there. It was upon his person when devoured by the silver
whale.

“Valentine yet lingers in prison; his family are starving. Now you have
the whole sad story. I know you are a Christian and a philanthropist,
Frank. You will agree with me that we ought to do something to right
this great wrong if we can.”

Frank had listened to the thrilling story with the deepest interest.

Now he said in a puzzled way:

“Well and good, George; but how can we do it?”

“Capture the silver whale.”

“Capture the whale! What earthly good will that do?”

“We can, perhaps, recover the confession.”

Frank whistled in surprise.

“Why, how absurd!” he exclaimed. “It must have become absorbed long ago
in the whale’s stomach. In any event the creature has no doubt long ago
been captured and destroyed.”

“No,” said Stanhope, firmly; “I do not believe that. I have heard of the
silver whale many times since. Numerous whaling captains have reported
it in parts contiguous to the locality where poor Tucker met his fate. I
believe with this submarine boat we can pursue and capture the silver
whale.”

“Very well; but the confession——”

“It was folded and kept in a metal box or case which Tucker wore in his
belt. It could not be absorbed, and I have seen objects of metal many
times taken from the stomach of a whale.”

Frank’s face lit up.

“So it was in a metal case.”

“Yes.”

“Then there is a chance!” cried the young inventor, springing up.
“George, I am deeply interested. If the silver whale is yet in
existence, we will run it down and recover the confession, if possible.
It at least affords us an object for our submarine voyage.”

“Correct!” cried Stanhope. “I knew you would grasp the idea, Frank.”

“We will at once start for the North Pacific. Have your effects ready.”

“They are all ready!” declared Stanhope. “I have explored every country
upon the face of the earth. Now it is my happy privilege to explore the
bed of the sea. Am I not a lucky man?”

“Begorra, Misther Frank,” cried a rollicking voice from the yard. “We
have ivery bit of provisions aboord, an’ shure it’s all ready to start
we are!”

“Good!” cried Frank. “There shall be no delay on my part. We will be off
at the quickest possible moment.”

Stanhope at once went out and telegraphed Mrs. Tucker in San Francisco.

                  *       *       *       *       *

DEAR MADAM,—We start very soon in the submarine boat Dolphin for the
North Pacific in quest of the white whale. Let us hope we shall find the
evidence to clear your husband. Be of cheerful mind.

                                                        GEORGE STANHOPE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The remainder of the day was spent in completing the preparations for
the start.

The next morning all was announced in readiness.

The Dolphin floated in the tank all ready for the start.

The voyagers went aboard, and Frank gave orders for the big gates to be
opened. This was done, and the boat floated into the canal.

Here it was in plain view of the great crowd which was waiting outside
to greet it with cheers. The Dolphin floated down the canal toward the
river.

Soon it was in the current of the larger stream, and then Frank started
the electric engines to greater speed.

This sent the Dolphin ahead at a lively rate and Readestown began to
fade from view.

All of the voyagers were upon the main deck by the open door of the
pilot-house. Frank was at the wheel.

“Take a good look at Readestown,” said the young inventor. “It may be
your last one!”

Instinctively Barney and Pomp turned.

“Begorra, it’s the foinest spot on earth!” cried the Celt. “May we live
to return to dear old Radestown!”

“Golly! I done fink dat we mus’ do dat,” averred Pomp. “Dis chile neber
gwine to leabe his bones in no oder place!”

“Don’t yez be too shure, naygur,” declared Barney, shaking his head.
“Shure, it’s many a close call we’ll be afther havin’ yit, me lad.
There’s no spendin’ a year or more at the bottom av the say widout some
bit av a risk.”

“You are right, Barney,” said the explorer, Stanhope; “but we are going
to look upon the bright side of this thing. We shall sail the North
Pacific, capture the silver whale, return and see old America again in
safety. Mark my prophecy.”

“I hope you have hit it right, George,” laughed Frank; “at least you are
right in looking on the bright side.”

So the submarine voyagers left home in quite a cheerful frame of mind.

But they little dreamed of the thrilling experiences which the near
future held.

They had no means of guessing the terrible perils through which they
were to pass.

A voyage under the sea can scarcely be attended by aught but danger and
risk.

Readestown was soon left out of sight.

The Dolphin sped on down the river current to the sea. Thus far Frank
had kept the boat on the surface.

When the open sea was reached he said:

“I think that for the first thousand miles of our course we will travel
faster under water. I have studied the ocean bed, and there are no
obstructions to encounter at the proper mean elevation.”

“Then we are to start out at once with a thousand mile voyage under
water?” asked the explorer Stanhope.

“Yes.”

“Good! I am very glad of that. There is much in the Atlantic worthy of
study. You will make the Pacific by way of Cape Horn?”

To Stanhope’s surprise Frank shook his head.

“No,” he said. “That is the longest route.”

“What other is there?”

“By the Northwest Passage.”

Stanhope was surprised.

“Why, man,” he exclaimed, “that has never been discovered. It does not
exist!”

“Yes, it does,” averred Frank, “but it is never navigable to surface
vessels, owing to its being choked with ice. But the Dolphin can go
under the ice.”

“Under the ice?”

“Exactly.”

“Wonderful!” cried Stanhope, excitedly. “I never thought of that. It is
certainly the nearest way to the North Pacific. We shall pass into
Behring Sea?”

The Dolphin was already out of sight of land, and headed northward. She
was a fast sailer, and rode the waves like a duck.

Frank now decided to begin his submarine voyage. He went into the
pilot-house and pressed a lever.

Instantly every door and window was hermetically sealed and the electric
lights were turned on full force.

The Dolphin took a plunge beneath the surface.

Down it went until the glare of the electric lights revealed a rare and
wonderful scene.

There were marine plants of queer and beautiful sort, cliffs, crags and
reefs of vari-colored coral, thousands of fish of all hues and shapes,
and many other strange and marvelous things.

The voyagers were for a time enchained by this wonderful exhibition.

Particularly was Stanhope enchanted, and he was anxious to possess some
of the wonderful specimens that he saw.

“How can I get some of that lovely coral, Frank?” he cried. “It is a
species I never saw before.”

“There is only one way,” said Frank.

“And how is that?”

“Simply put on a diving suit and go out there and get them.”

“Can I do that?”

Before Frank could answer a startling and terrible thing happened. A cry
of terror came from Barney.

The Celt had been in the pilot-house and chanced accidentally to press
the motive valve. Instantly the Dolphin darted forward like an arrow.

Barney gripped the valve and tried to shut off the current and check the
awful speed of the boat.

But he was unable to do this. For some reason or other the valve stuck
and would not move.

No harm would have been done had the boat been a fathom higher in the
water, as there was no obstacle which she could not easily have passed.

But a moment later there was a terrific rending shock. Every one was
thrown from his feet.

The Dolphin came to a dead stop, and for an instant all was darkness.




                              CHAPTER IV.
                      THE SUNKEN WRECK—THE SHARK.


The crash had for an instant broken the current, but the light quickly
flashed up again.

The electric engines were whirring like a top, and seemed likely to go
to smash. But Frank Reade, Jr., was almost instantly upon his feet.

He rushed into the engine-room and checked them. The screw ceased its
mad and useless revolutions.

The Dolphin had struck something.

This was certain. But fortunately no breakage or puncture of the hull
had occurred, so there was no danger of death by drowning like rats in a
trap.

The Dolphin was motionless in her position.

Barney pulled himself out of a corner. Pomp crawled out of a heap of
furniture, and Stanhope emerged from a closet into which he had crashed.

Nobody was hurt, but there were bruises and scratches galore.

However, no one but was anxious to know the cause of the catastrophe.

Accordingly all rushed into the pilot-house where Frank was focusing the
searchlight. This revealed the true state of affairs at once.

The obstruction into which the Dolphin had crashed was nothing more nor
less than the sunken frame of a decayed vessel, half buried in the
sands.

The nose of the Dolphin had become so firmly wedged in the timbers that
it was held fast.

“Begorra, it’s stuck fast we are!” cried Barney, rubbing a bruised shin.
“Shure, Misther Frank, we’ll niver pull out av that!”

“That is so, Frank!” cried Stanhope; “how can we ever extricate
ourselves?”

“We can try,” said Frank, laconically.

The young inventor carefully examined the position of the submarine
boat. To his great joy he saw that she was unhurt.

Though she was tightly wedged in the debris of the wreck, there was no
visible damage done her.

Frank hardly believed it possible to withdraw her from the wreck with
the aid of the screw alone.

Yet he was constrained to make the attempt.

So he went into the engine-room and started the motor upon the reverse.
The screw revolved furiously; the engines were exerted to their utmost.

But all in vain.

The electric boat could not be drawn from her position by hook or by
crook. The situation was dubious.

Stanhope looked grave.

“How is it, Frank?” he asked. “Are we done for?”

The young inventor laughed.

“I think not,” he said. “We shall find a way out of the scrape.”

“But how?”

“I cannot explain now.”

All but Frank looked serious. The young inventor did not seem in the
least perturbed.

He went forward again and more closely studied the position of the
Dolphin. Then he returned.

“Barney,” he said, “bring me that case from the forward cabin in which
are the diving suits.”

“All roight, sor.”

Away, went the Celt upon his errand. He presently returned with a heavy
box upon his shoulders.

This was deposited upon the cabin floor and opened.

From it Frank took a diving suit, helmet and all.

He proceeded at once to don it.

“You are going to leave the boat, Frank?” asked Stanhope.

“Yes.”

“May I ask the privilege of accompanying you?”

“If you wish,” replied Frank; “but my purpose is to saw away the timbers
which hold the Dolphin’s nose.”

“I can help you.”

“Yes.”

At once Stanhope proceeded to don another suit. Soon both were attired,
ready to leave the boat.

Frank armed himself with a pike and saw, as did Stanhope.

Then they entered the vestibule. It quickly filled with water, and a
moment later they were able to emerge and walk upon the bed of the
ocean.

Frank walked around the Dolphin and inspected its position. Stanhope
remained upon the opposite side.

Then Frank mounted the timbers over the Dolphin’s bow, and began work
with his saw. He worked away with all his might to sever the heaviest
timber which held the head of the Dolphin.

It was no light task, for the timber was of stoutest oak, but Frank kept
steadily at work.

As soon as he was able to accustom himself to the pressure of the water,
Stanhope joined him.

Both labored for fully an hour, and then the last timber was sawed, and
there was no doubt but that the boat could easily float away from the
wreck.

The Dolphin was saved, and the party could once more go forward upon its
submarine journey.

Stanhope endeavored to speak to Frank. But of course the young inventor
could not hear him.

However, Frank guessed from his actions that he was endeavoring to do
this, so he advanced and placing his helmet close to Stanhope’s,
shouted:

“Do you wish to speak to me?”

The words sounded to Stanhope far, far distant, but he understood them,
and replied:

“Is this the only way we can make ourselves understood?”

“Yes.”

“You think that the Dolphin is now able to be removed?”

“Oh, yes.”

“I am glad of that. Shall we return to the cabin now?”

“Unless you wish to conduct some research. If so, this is your chance.”

But Stanhope replied:

“I think I will defer it until another time.”

“Very well.”

Frank turned to clamber down from the wreck, but even as he did so he
caught sight of a deadly peril.

This was in the form of a huge body which he saw suddenly loom up in the
water not far distant.

It was, as he saw at once, a species of shark, and a monster in size.
The creature had seen them and was moving toward them.

Frank saw that there was not time to reach the cabin before the monster
would be upon them.

For that he meant to attack them was a moral certainty.

The young inventor gripped his companion’s arm in warning. Stanhope saw
the terrible peril.

Instinctively he drew the pike from his belt and stood on his guard. The
shark, with a lightning-like movement, described a parabola about them.

Frank knew that they might expect a downward attack from the monster.

As it would have to turn upon its back to seize them, the opportunity to
strike a defensive blow would be good.

And now came the attack.

The shark came down from above like a thunderbolt. Those on board the
Dolphin saw this and were powerless to act.

“Be me sowl! It’s a divil av a shark afther thim!” cried Barney. “An’
shure there’s no way to help thim at all, at all!”

“Golly, but dey jes’ be all killed!” screamed Pomp. “Don’ yo’ fink dar
be nuffin’ we kin do?”

“Divil a bit!”

Frank and Stanhope were ready to take care of themselves.

As the shark descended upon them both crouched low.

The creature’s open jaws were not four feet from Frank when he buried
the pike in the shark’s body.

The shock knocked him over, and he rolled upon the deck of the sunken
ship. Stanhope made a blow at the fish, but missed it.

The monster flashed by like a meteor, and once again shot up to make a
fresh attack.

But the blow given it had told.

The water was full of blood, and the shark writhed as if in pain.

But once more it came down.

Over upon its back it rolled. The horrid jaws were wide open.

This time it had not the strength to come as swiftly as before. Its
movements were sluggish.

And this gave Stanhope his chance to deal the monster a blow.

Also Frank thrust his pike into the shark’s body. It was the finishing
stroke.

The monster made a convulsive leap upward, beat the water furiously, and
then sank quivering but dying to the ocean bed.

The struggle was over. Man had triumphed over brute. The divers were the
victors in this terrible battle.

No time was wasted in returning to the cabin of the Dolphin.

Frank and Stanhope were both much exhausted with the struggle, and both
were glad to get their diving suits off.

Barney and Pomp welcomed them effusively.

“Begorra, Misther Frank!” cried the Celt, “shure I was shakin’ in me
skin fer yez! But I niver yit seen yez outdone!”

Frank laughed at this.

“It was a close call, Barney,” he declared; “but we were lucky enough to
pull out of the scrape.”

The Dolphin’s engines now were reversed, and she easily pulled out of
her predicament.

So far as could be seen, she was not seriously injured.

The spirits of the voyagers revived greatly, and the boat now went on
its way rapidly.

But some one was constantly at the wheel. No chances were taken now.

The searchlight threw its radiance for a full mile ahead. This enabled
all obstructions to be seen and avoided.

The Dolphin proved wonderfully stanch and seaworthy. But at times her
sides would creak and groan, which was an indication that she was at too
great a depth. Then it would become necessary to raise her to a point
where the pressure would not be so tremendous.

To attempt to describe in detail the wonders witnessed by the crew of
the Dolphin each day would require many volumes.

Northward she kept for weeks, and then all became conscious of the fact
that they were getting into Arctic waters.

Frank repeatedly studied his chart, and took note of the formation of
the ocean’s bed.

One day he declared:

“We are in the upper waters of Baffins Bay and under the ice. Above us
it must be twenty feet in thickness. If any accident should happen to
the Dolphin now we could never hope to reach the surface. We should be
buried forever in these lonely depths.”

It was an appalling thought, and the voyagers exchanged glances.

The words had barely left Frank’s lips when, as if to emphasize his
declaration, there came a stunning crash and the Dolphin seemed likely
to turn completely over.




                               CHAPTER V.
                          BATTLE WITH A WHALE.


Not one in the party but was hurled to the deck. But each gained his
feet quickly.

“My goodness! We are lost!” cried Stanhope.

But one thought was in Frank’s mind. He believed that the Dolphin had
run against a reef.

Pomp had been in the pilot-house. It was a remissness in duty upon his
part if such was the case.

But now from the pilot-house came the terrified cry:

“Oh, Marse Frank, for de lov’ ob goodness, cum yere quick!”

Frank was not slow to respond.

He rushed into the pilot-house to find Pomp hanging to the wheel. The
boat seemed to be flying.

“What is the matter? What did you strike?” shouted Frank.

“Didn’t strike nuffin’, sah. Somefin’ struck us, an’ it was de berry
bigges’ fish eber dis chile see!”

“A fish!” exclaimed Frank.

“Yas, sah! Jes’ look ober yonder.”

Frank had reversed the motive key, and the Dolphin had come to a stop.
Dead ahead, in the glare of the searchlight, was a monster body.

What Pomp had called a fish Frank instantly recognized.

It was a monster whale.

The cetacean, with the curiosity and pugnacity of its species, had
boldly attacked this giant invader of its deep sea home.

Full tilt it had rushed upon the Dolphin. Only the buoyancy and strength
of the submarine boat had saved it from being crushed like an eggshell.

Even now it seemed to be preparing for another dash at the Dolphin.
Frank saw this.

He instantly started the engine and whirled the boat about so as to meet
the whale head on.

The Dolphin had a ram, and if the whale should come in contact with this
it would be a serious affair for him.

And the sea monster seemed inclined to accept the challenge.

One moment it hung there in the current; then it lowered its head
apparently, and made a convulsive movement with its mighty flukes.

“It is coming!” cried Stanhope, excitedly.

This was true enough.

Instinctively all braced for the shock which they knew must come.

Frank opened the lever wide. The Dolphin darted forward like lightning.

But the whale, wary as its kind always are, and uncertain, suddenly took
a lightning-like downward plunge.

The ram of the Dolphin barely scraped its back. The shock threw all off
their feet, but no further harm was done.

Instantly Frank sprang to the wheel and whirled the Dolphin about.

He knew what to expect, and this was that the whale would return to the
attack from a new quarter.

Indeed he could already see the monster turning to carry out this plan.

The Dolphin came about just in time; the whale once more faced its
leviathan opponent.

This time the cetacean did not seem inclined to avoid the collision. It
bore down full tilt for the Dolphin.

Frank instantly started the engines.

Then came the collision.

It was a most terrific one.

The ram struck the whale square in the forehead. It glanced and plowed
its way through the monster.

The whale was instantly killed, but the submarine boat was now in a fix.
The ram was immovably fixed in the flesh of the huge monster.

This was really a serious matter. In vain Frank tried to back the boat
away.

The engines were not powerful enough to extricate the ram.

It was firmly fixed.

And now the buoyant body of the whale began to rise. Being greater in
lightness than the Dolphin, it took it along with it.

Up toward the surface went the boat and fish.

Frank knew that the surface of the ocean was frozen solid. They would
not come to open air, but in contact with the ice above.

And this was just what happened.

There was a sudden jar, and the boat and whale rested against the
surface of ice.

Under ordinary circumstances this might have done no damage.

But the current now began to drag the boat and whale along the surface
of the ice forcibly.

It was powerful at this spot, and Frank saw that something must be done,
or much damage would be done the Dolphin.

The young inventor was for a moment at a loss just what to do.

Then an idea occurred to him.

They were scraping along the ice violently. Frank went below and brought
up a curious-looking object.

It looked like a small pontoon boat, but something after the pattern of
the Dolphin.

But Stanhope recognized its nature at once.

It was a light torpedo, and could be discharged from a shaft just aft
the ram in the bow of the boat.

“A torpedo!” exclaimed the great explorer. “Are you going to use it,
Frank?”

“Yes.”

“But——”

“What?”

“Is there no risk? May it not do us more harm than anything else?”

“I think not,” replied the young inventor. “This is a very light one,
and the charge I think is not strong enough. If it will dislodge the
whale that is the best we may ask.”

“Most certainly; but do you think it is sufficient?”

“We can only try.”

“That is right.”

Frank went forward and placed the torpedo in the tube.

This was operated by pneumatic pressure, but the force of expulsion was
great enough to send it a long way.

Frank now fired the tube. The torpedo shot forth and struck the whale in
its side. The result was instantaneous.

There was a shock. The Dolphin reeled and the water boiled about her.
Then as it cleared it was seen that the monster had been literally blown
in two pieces.

The ram was almost liberated, and as the air bladder of the fish was
broken it now began to sink.

Frank now rushed back to the cabin.

Quickly he donned his diving suit. Stanhope, seeing the risk, tried to
remonstrate with him.

But Frank did not listen; he left the cabin and was quickly out upon the
deck.

He crept along until well out on the ram. In his right hand he carried a
keen hatchet.

It was the work of but a few moments to cut away the section of blubber,
and the boat was free.

At once it began to sink.

Frank crept back into the cabin safely, and into the overjoyed arms of
his companions, who were indeed glad of his success.

“That was a plucky thing to do, Frank,” cried Stanhope.

But the young inventor only smiled.

“There are more difficult things,” he declared; “there was no other
way.”

But the Dolphin had now reached the bottom again. She was unscathed by
her thrilling experience.

Frank now started her ahead upon her northward trip.

The further north they proceeded, the more shallow, grew the ocean.

Many curious things were seen.

One day, as the boat was driving along at a lively rate, Barney, who was
in the wheel-house, saw an object dead ahead.

As it was in the course of the boat he checked speed. Drawing nearer
slowly he focussed the electric light and received a startling surprise.

At once he cried:

“Whurroo! Misther Frank, wud yez cum here, sor?”

Frank at once responded.

“What is it, Barney?”

“Shure, sor, it’s a ship!”

“A ship?”

“Yis, sor. Sunken under the wather, sor. A rale ship, sor!”

At once Frank was interested. He gazed out through a dead-eye window,
and saw that Barney was right.

There, in the path of the Dolphin was a sunken ship. It was full rigged,
and had apparently gone down with all sails set.

What was more, it was a whaling vessel, as its blackened funnels and
high bulwarks attested.

“A sunken whale ship!” cried Frank.

Stanhope heard him.

“Is it?” he cried. “Mercy! What a sad fate!”

“But the Arctic holds many such.”

“You are right. Shall we stop to search her, Frank?” asked the explorer.

The young inventor shook his head.

“I think not,” he replied. “It will be hardly worth while. Besides, we
must make this Northwest Passage before the Arctic winter sets in.”

The Dolphin now entered a labyrinth of channels and straits.

Only a master mind like Frank Reade, Jr.’s could have emerged
successfully from this tangle.

But he succeeded, and one day, after a long threading of such passages,
he appeared in the cabin with a startling declaration.

“We have made the Northwest Passage and shall soon emerge into the
Behring Sea. We will before many days be in hot pursuit of the silver
whale.”

Stanhope sprang up and swung his cap excitedly.

“Hurrah!” he shouted. “That is a great achievement in more than one
sense. We have proved the existence of the Northwest Passage, which has
been a subject of such doubt among mariners for hundreds of years.”

“You mean that we have proved the existence of the passage, but not that
it is navigable,” said Frank.

“Ah, but it is that!”

“I fear not!”

“And why not?”

“There is every indication that it is perpetually blocked with ice. No
vessel could find its way through.”

“Yet we did.”

“You are caught!” he said. “We will allow that it is navigable for a
submarine boat. But only think! Very shortly we shall be in quest of the
silver whale!”

“Let us hope that we shall succeed in finding him,” cried Stanhope,
hopefully. “And also the confession which will save Valentine Tucker.”

“Amen to that.”

The Dolphin plowed the waters of the Behring Sea. The frightful cold of
the Arctic waters now began to lessen.

It was evident that they were nearing the warmer waters of the Pacific.
And in due time the Aleutian Isles were passed.




                              CHAPTER VI.
                           THE ENGLISH SHIP.


The Dolphin had made a wonderful trip.

Under water for so many hundreds of miles, under Arctic ice, and through
the least known parts of the ocean she had safely come.

Truly the voyagers had good reason to congratulate themselves upon the
success of their undertaking.

But the really thrilling experiences of the voyage were before them,
though they little realized it.

Into the North Pacific they made their way, and even into those
latitudes which it was believed were frequented by the wonderful silver
whale.

Plenty of whales had been seen, but all were of the common variety.

The random quest had now begun, for it could be little else. There was
no way of guessing the locality of the silver whale.

The creature might swim those seas for years and not be encountered by
those in quest of it. But Frank hoped for better luck.

At any moment there was the chance of coming across it.

At the first opportunity Frank hoped to capture it. And thus the Dolphin
cruised aimlessly about.

Of course she cruised on the surface most of the time, for here was
where it was believed the whale would be quickest seen.

Every distant spouting whale was run down, only to find that it was a
common whale.

At length even Stanhope began to lose courage.

“We ought to get a glimpse of his whaleship soon,” said Frank one day,
after weeks of useless quest. “Is it not very strange?”

“Indeed, I think so,” said Stanhope. “Yet I believe the time is near.”

“You have good courage.”

“Which is my good fortune.”

“Indeed, that is so. An ordinary man would have given up the quest long
ago.”

“I dare say.”

But one day Barney remarked:

“Sail ho!”

This cry caused a little ripple of excitement. Frank answered:

“A sail is it, Barney?”

“Shure, sor, it is!”

“Whereaway?”

“Dead to windward, sor.”

All went upon the platform deck of the Dolphin with glasses and viewed
the distant vessel.

She carried a cloud of canvas, and was evidently a fast sailer.

“Upon my word!” cried Stanhope, “she looks like one of the old-time
Indiamen or tea wagons!”

“You are right,” agreed Frank. “But it can hardly be so. What would she
be doing in these waters?”

“She may have been blown from her course.”

“Begorra, mebbe she’s wan av thim fast English cutters what comes around
here poaching for Ameriky’s seals!” cried Barney.

Stanhope gave a start.

“I guess you’ve hit it, Barney,” he cried. “There is little doubt of
it.”

“Shall we hail her?” asked Frank.

Stanhope hesitated a moment.

“If I thought we should gain any information of value,” he said, “I
would certainly be in favor if it.”

“It shall be so. We can no more than try.”

Frank went to the wheel-house and headed the Dolphin for the distant
ship. Barney went to the upper deck with a flag.

The cutter was a fast sailer, but the Dolphin easily overhauled her. The
actions of the ship were very queer. She was evidently trying to run
away from the Dolphin.

For some moments Frank was puzzled.

“This is queer,” he exclaimed. “She seems to be afraid of us.”

“Perhaps she thinks we are some sort of an American war cruiser,”
ventured Stanhope.

Frank saw the truth at once.

“Correct!” he cried. “Then our only way it to get within hailing
distance.”

For miles the chase went on. The cutter spread every inch of canvas, but
the Dolphin overhauled her.

When not one hundred yards astern of the big ship Frank mounted the
forward and highest deck.

He had a speaking trumpet, and shouted:

“Ship ahoy! What ship is that?”

The captain evidently saw that to attempt to run away from the fleet
Dolphin was sheer folly.

The rigging was crowded with sailors. These began to reef and haul, and
the ship came around to her helm.

Then the captain himself appeared in the shrouds.

“Ahoy!” he shouted.

“Ahoy!” replied Frank.

“This is the English cutter, Southampton. Who are

“The American submarine boat, Dolphin,” replied Frank.

“Ship of war?”

“No; a private vessel. And we are in these waters upon an important
errand. We seek information from you.”

This announcement had an electrical effect upon the cutter’s captain.

The announcement that the Dolphin was not a war vessel changed the
complexion of things at once.

Down came the big sails of the Southampton, and the captain shouted:

“Come alongside. I’m glad to meet friends in these lonely waters. I’ll
help you all I can.”

“That’s the way to talk,” said Frank. “I’ll go aboard.”

“Will yez have the Dolphin’s boat, sor?” asked Barney.

“Yes,” replied Frank. “Get it out as quick as you can.”

The Celt needed no second bidding.

He and Pomp were quickly at work. The boat was out in a jiffy. Frank
turned to Stanhope.

“Do you want to go with me?” he asked.

“Yes,” replied the other, eagerly.

They stepped into the light craft and rowed away over the dancing waves.

A moment later they were ascending the gangway of the Southampton.

The captain met them at the head of the stairs. He was a genial-featured
son of Britain.

“I greet you, gentlemen,” he said. “I am Theodore Briggs, captain of
this ship.”

“I am Frank Reade, Jr., captain of the Dolphin,” replied Frank. “This is
my friend, Mr. Stanhope.”

This formality over, the captain of the Southampton led the way to his
cabin.

“You will share my hospitality,” he said. “A glass of old Madeira.”

The wine was good, and at once established good feelings.

After a few cursory remarks, Captain Briggs ventured to ask:

“In your hail, Captain Reade, you vouchsafed the statement that I could
help you. I should be pleased to know in what way?”

“Certainly,” replied Frank. “But first, let me tell you a strange
story.”

Then he recited the object of their mission in these seas, and dwelt
particularly upon the sad fate of poor Albert Tucker.

Captain Briggs listened with the deepest interest.

When Frank had finished, he said:

“Your tale interests me much, Captain Reade. Perhaps I may be of
assistance to you.”

“Indeed!” exclaimed Frank, eagerly.

“I have seen this white or silver whale. It is no myth, but a reality.
Not twenty-four since it blowed not fifty yards from our quarters. We
tried then to harpoon it, and chased it for some ways. But it was too
wary.”

“That information is of the utmost value to me!” cried Frank, joyfully.
“For I know that the strange whale is yet in existence. It is hardly
likely that there are two of the species in this vicinity.”

“I am glad, then, if I have been of service,” said the captain, warmly.

“Indeed you have.”

“Can I aid you in any other way?”

“I thank you, but I think not. I will at once start the chase for the
monster. I hope to make his acquaintance soon.”

“I hope you will, and that I may know the result of your attempt.”

“You shall.”

Frank went on deck and was escorted to the gangway. The captain of the
Southampton was a master of politeness.

He greeted Frank warmly.

But at this moment a great cry went up.

“There she blows—the silver whale!”

Instantly all eyes swept the sea.

“Whereaway?” shouted Captain Briggs.

“Two points to leeward!”

There was no disputing the fact. There in plain view upon the surface of
the sea, its white sides glistening in the sunlight, was the silver
whale.

The excitement on board both vessels was most intense.

The sailors of the Southampton excitedly filled the shrouds. For a
moment Captain Briggs and Frank gazed at the monster without being able
to speak.

Then Frank made a start for the gangway. He was about to leap down into
the boat with Stanhope, when Captain Briggs placed a hand upon his arm.

“We will help you!” he cried. “I will lower boats, and we will capture
the monster.”

“I thank you,” replied Frank, hastily; “pardon my sudden departure.”

Then he dropped into the boat beside Stanhope. Barney and Pomp, on board
the Dolphin, with wonderful sagacity, had started the engines so as to
lessen the rowing distance.

“Quick, George!” cried Frank. “We must get back to the Dolphin as soon
as possible. There is no time to lose.”

“You are right,” cried Stanhope, as he bent to the oars.

The light boat literally flew through the water. In less time than it
takes to tell it, they sprang aboard the submarine boat.

Barney drew the boat aboard and secured it. Pomp had already started the
Dolphin in pursuit of the whale.

Frank was quickly in the pilot-house.

He grasped the wheel, and then the boat shot forward like a flash. The
Dolphin was a very speedy craft.

The whale would have been quickly impaled on her ram, but at that moment
it seemed to take a sudden freak and dived.

Down it instantly went out of sight. Frank was for a moment chagrined.

But he instantly took active measures to pursue. He pressed the
reservoir valve and the Dolphin sank.

Down for a hundred feet she went.

Frank did not believe that the whale would dive deeper than this.

With the descent of the Dolphin Frank instantly pressed the electric
valve.

Instantly the sea for a great radius about was illumined.

Frank saw the distant form of the whale racing before the light like
mad.

The young inventor instantly set the pace.

On through the water went the mad flight of pursuer and pursued.

It was indeed hard to say which held the advantage.

The whale seemed to hold its own by gyratory motions which it was
difficult for the Dolphin to follow with accuracy.




                              CHAPTER VII.
                       CHASING THE SILVER WHALE.


But still Frank believed that the Dolphin was gaining.

He entertained one fond hope.

This was that the whale would turn and show fight. He knew the inherent
pugnacity of the species.

But it did not.

For some reason or other it chose to hold its erratic course. To attempt
to overtake it was impossible.

Frank saw this, but yet hoped that some turn of fortune would aid him.
The chase came to a termination, though, in a peculiar way.

Suddenly the whale vanished as quickly as though dispelled into mist.
Frank fancied that it had taken a turn at right angles.

He instantly slackened the engines. The Dolphin was coming about when
she found herself immersed in a cloud, which even the electric light
could not penetrate.

Nothing could be seen in any direction. All was blackness. It was an
astounding turn of affairs.

“Great heavens!” cried Stanhope. “What has happened?”

The Dolphin was at a standstill, preparatory to coming about.

For an instant Frank did not know what to do.

Which way had the whale gone? What did the sudden wave of darkness mean?

The answer came almost instantly, and in a startling way.

Suddenly at the pilot-house window there loomed up a giant face, as full
of deviltry and cunning as ever was seen.

It had a hawk-like beak, cruel jaws, and eyes round and cat-like. Great
arms, adorned with curious feelers of spongy material, completely
enveloped the hull of the boat.

In that instant all recognized the nature of the creature.

“An octopus!” screamed Stanhope.

It was truly one of that monster variety of cuttlefish or octopus which
inhabit the depths of the Pacific.

The black mist in the water was now easily explained.

The octopus possesses a bag filled with an inky fluid which it dispenses
through the water upon the approach of danger.

Frank was filled with horror and dismay. Not that he feared the attack
of the octopus, but it was the means of his losing track of the white
whale.

The arms of the octopus held the boat securely. Its ravenous beak beat
furiously against the cabin window.

Of course its strength was not sufficient to break it, nor could any
harm be done the Dolphin.

But it was a question of no light sort as to how they were to release
themselves from the clutches of the monster. Of course this must be done
before they could hope to proceed.

“What a shame!” cried Stanhope. “We have now lost track of the silver
whale.”

“It is hard luck,” agreed Frank.

“We must make the best of it.”

“Of course. First to get rid of this encumbrance and then to go on.”

Frank Reade, Jr., was not the one to be puzzled by a contingency of this
kind—at least, he could not be baffled.

He had soon hit upon an expedient.

From the engine-room he had procured a long coil of wire; then he donned
some rubber gloves and connected the wire with the dynamos.

Enough of the current could be thus furnished to kill a dozen men.

Frank handled the wire carefully.

The feelers of the octopus were pressed against the steel frame of the
pilot-house. Frank made a clever circuit, throwing the current suddenly
into the steel frame.

The effect was electrical and fatal to the octopus.

It received the whole charge of a number of thousand volts. At once its
huge arms relaxed, and it sank back.

The Dolphin was freed from its encumbrance, and now could go ahead with
ease.

The inky cloud which had obscured the water had now become dispelled.
The searchlight’s rays flashed everywhere.

But the silver whale was nowhere to be seen.

It had made good its escape. Once more it was like looking for a needle
in a haystack.

Certainly the outlook was discouraging. But Frank Reade, Jr., had the
right kind of pluck.

He would never give up while there was a certainty that the silver whale
was in existence.

“We will find him again!” he declared. “Possibly he is even now not far
off.”

“Perhaps on the surface,” ventured Stanhope.

“Exactly.”

Frank touched the lever, and the boat instantly rose to the surface. As
it came up into daylight every eye scanned the sea.

Everywhere was the unbroken expanse of rolling brine. Only one object
was visible, and that was a white sail far distant on the horizon.

That it was the ship Southampton was probable.

“Shall we rejoin her?” asked Stanhope.

“I think not,” replied Frank. “Nothing will be gained. Let her go her
way. We may work better alone.”

So this was the last seen of the English cutter. Her sails were soon
invisible.

For some while the Dolphin traveled on the surface of the sea. Then
Frank decided to go down.

So the Dolphin descended once more to submarine depths.

For a whole day she kept on thus. Then, as night was coming on, the
object of the quest was again seen.

The silver whale was floating lazily in a growth of submarine plants not
a quarter of a mile distant. It did not seem conscious of the approach
of the Dolphin.

Frank was in the pilot-house.

The young inventor instantly brought the Dolphin to a stop. He had
decided this time upon more cautious tactics.

He was determined to make sure of his game this time.

He allowed the Dolphin to float gradually nearer to the monster.

Stanhope was with him in the pilot-house.

The explorer watched Frank’s tactics with great eagerness.

“You have given up the idea of trying to run down and ram the whale?” he
asked.

“Yes,” replied Frank. “I am going to try a different game.”

“Torpedoes?”

“Yes.”

Frank took a torpedo and went forward. He placed it in the tube. Drawing
a careful line on the whale, he pressed the pneumatic lever.

There was a recoil and a muffled report. The torpedo had sailed through
the water apparently in a straight course for the whale.

Had it struck the cetacean it would have proved its end. But
unfortunately this was not the case.

The torpedo just passed over the body of the whale. Gliding fifty yards
beyond it struck a reef, and exploded with terrible force.

For a few moments the water literally boiled in the vicinity.

The whale shot forward like a stone from a catapult.

One moment it was visible flying in the distance.

Quick as thought Frank saw his mistake and acted.

He sprang into the pilot-house and pressed the motor key. The boat shot
forward like a flash.

Straight after the whale it went. One moment the latter was visible.
Then a great wall of blackness loomed up and the whale vanished.

Not recognizing the nature of this trick, and fearing a dangerous
obstacle, Frank pressed the lever forward and brought the boat to a
stop.

“Great Scott!” cried Stanhope, excitedly, “it is a big submarine cave,
Frank.”

“A cave!” gasped the young inventor.

“Certainly. A cave under the sea. The whale has gone into it.”

This was certainly the truth.

Frank was greatly surprised. He gazed into the mouth of the cavern in
amazement.

It extended far into the bowels, of the earth.

Frank brought the searchlight to bear upon the inner regions of the
cave.

A wonderful sight was revealed.

It seemed to be carved out of a stone which was emerald-like in color
and broken into various conformations.

The sight was dazzling, and the explorers gazed upon it spellbound.

“Begorra! but it’s a beautiful sight!” cried Barney, with mouth agape.
“Did any av yez iver see the loikes av it?”

“Indeed, it is grand beyond anything I have ever seen!” exclaimed
Stanhope.

But Frank was the first to recover from the spell of wonder upon the
party.

He was looking for the whale.

It had vanished into one of the labyrinthian passages and left no trace
behind it.

How far this extended none in the party could guess.

But the Dolphin was able to penetrate some distance into the cavern, for
the arches were high.

For what seemed like an interminable distance the Dolphin threaded its
way into the depths.

Frank was hopeful, even sanguine, that the silver whale was at last
entrapped.

Of course there was the possibility that it had escaped by some other
outlet. In this case it was no doubt by this time far away.

But Frank pressed forward as far as the size of the Dolphin would admit.

Then the sides of the submarine boat collided with the walls of stone.
It could go no further.

Here was a predicament. The voyagers exchanged puzzled glances. What was
to be done?

Frank was thoughtful. Stanhope paced up and down nervously. Barney
sputtered and Pomp fumed.

“Begorra! I niver see the bate av it!” cried the Celt; “that whale is
loike the divil’s own. He do be squeezing out av the smallest holes I
iver see!”

“Golly, but I done fink he am got away now fo’ suah!” rejoined Pomp. “It
am a drefful shame we didn’t shoot it wif dat torpedo!”

“Bejabers, it’s a hoodoo yez are, naygur!” declared Barney, unable to
restrain giving Pomp a jab.

The darky shook his woolly head.

“Yo am drefful smart, Mistah I’ish,” he retorted. “If yo’ don’ look out
yo’ might die young.”

“Begorra, I’ll surely die afore this voyage is out if yez bring us any
more such luck, yez omadhaun!”

Barney’s bantering manner was like a red flag in the eyes of a mad bull
to Pomp.

“Don’ yo’ call me any sich names ag’in, sah, or by mah soul I done gib
yo’ de worst trashin’ yo’ eber had.”

“Whurroo! Mebbe yez had betther thry it!” howled Barney, dancing about
like a dervish, and all ready for a ruction.

It began to look as if one would occur.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                         THE CONFESSION FOUND.


But before the controversy could be brought to an issue or a decision a
thrilling thing occurred.

A terrific yell escaped Stanhope’s lips.

“Look out!” he screamed, “for your lives, everybody! Take care!”

Frank Reade instantly sprang forward. The explorer was in the
pilot-house window.

He gripped a section of the partition, and with one finger pointed ahead
down the pathway of electric light.

There was the whale coming like a meteor head on for the Dolphin.

It had evidently been to the extreme end of the passage, and turning,
was now making a mad charge for the enemy in its path.

Fury personified was the silver monster, as with wide open jaws it came
straight down for the craft.

But Frank quickly pressed the lever and set the engines in motion. It
was just the contingency he wished.

He realized that the game was already bagged.

If the whale struck the ram of the Dolphin its fate would be sealed.
This was beyond dispute.

On like a meteor came the monster.

There was a brief flash of silver in the glare of light, then a stunning
shock.

It seemed as if the Dolphin would go to pieces.

Portable objects went crashing about the cabin.

But when the boat once more became still and all had recovered from the
terrific blow, a startling sight was revealed.

The whale had struck the ram head on, and the keen steel projection had
literally split the monster to its vitals.

Glancing along the course of the jaw, the ram had cut the whale half in
two.

It was as dead as a door post. The famous silver whale was no more.

Perhaps the most excited of the party was Stanhope.

The famous explorer could hardly contain himself.

“Hooray!” he shouted. “We have carried out our project! The game is
won!”

“And the silver whale is ours!” rejoined Frank.

“You are right, Frank. Now, the next thing is to investigate its stomach
and see if the metal case can be found.”

“It shall be done.”

Preparations were at once made to carry out this plan. The diving suits
were donned, and all equipped themselves with sharp knives and pikes.

It was a critical time, for all depended upon the success of this
attempt to find the metal ease containing the confession.

Of course, there was only a slight possibility that it had remained
intact in the whale’s stomach.

There was the likelihood that other substances had long since corroded
and consumed it.

In that case Valentine Tucker must continue to languish for the crime of
which he was not guilty.

All that could be done would then have been done. At least the party
could console themselves with this thought.

Work was at once begun dissecting the stomach and intestines of the
whale. It was no slight task.

It was necessary to proceed with the utmost caution and care. Every
little shred, every cell was carefully looked into.

But as the inspection progressed it became more and more certain that
the metal case was not among the contents of the stomach.

Some foreign substances were found. A pewter cup, a knife worn dull, and
what looked like a marling-spike, but so consumed that it could hardly
be identified.

Certainly the metal case was not among the contents of the stomach. It
looked as if the theory and the enterprise had signally failed.

The divers sat down for a moment to rest.

They were deeply disappointed.

Conversation was out of the question, for one could not make himself
heard except when the helmets were placed close together.

But as they sat there the water current lifted a part of the lining of
the whale’s stomach and deposited it across Stanhope’s knee.

He was about to brush it away when something caused him to halt.
Instantly he lifted the shred of flesh and membrane and passed his hand
over it.

There, grown into the lining, was an object a trifle larger than a man’s
hand.

From outward appearance it looked like a tumor growth, but Stanhope’s
fingers detected the hard substance underneath.

He knew well enough that it was quite possible for objects to grow into
the lining even of the human stomach.

A wild, eager hope seized him.

Instantly he drew the blade of his knife across the membrane. An object
slipped out.

It was rusty and corroded, but in the glare of the electric light it was
not hard for him to recognize its character at once.

It was the metal case.

Stanhope held it up with insane gestures. Frank, Barney and Pomp saw and
understood.

Instantly all started for the cabin of the submarine boat.

They were quickly aboard, and once the diving suits were off Stanhope
yelled with glee:

“Hurrah! We have succeeded! Here is what will save the life of Valentine
Tucker! It is an act of Providence!”

The corroded case lay upon the cabin table.

Frank looked at it.

“Do you believe this is the particular case?” he asked.

“It is hardly likely that there is any other,” replied the explorer.

“True, but——”

“What?”

“It has been a long time exposed to destructive agents. Perhaps the
papers inside are consumed.”

Stanhope had thought of this. There was a light of anxiety in his eyes,
but he said:

“We will hope for the best. Let us know our fate.”

The hermetical sealing of the case was yet intact, and rendered doubly
so by rust.

It was quite impossible to open it without destroying the case itself.
But Stanhope did not hesitate to do this.

He struck the metal a hard blow.

Instantly the case parted. To the delight of all, a crisp, folded paper
rolled out.

It was covered with writing, and was as intact as the day it was placed
there.

At the bottom of the confession was the name of Duncan Crane, and also
that of the witnesses. The evidence was complete.

Stanhope was the most delighted man in the world.

He carefully gathered up the remains of the metal case and the papers
and placed them securely away. Then he declared unctuously:

“I am ready for anything. What joy I shall bring to the sorrowing wife
and stricken husband!”

“I hardly think their pleasure will be greater than yours,” said Frank,
with a laugh.

“Very true,” agreed Stanhope; “this is the happiest achievement of my
life, I can tell you.”

The remains of the silver whale were left in the cavern. The Dolphin
backed out and into the open sea.

Then Frank touched the lever and she flew up to the surface.

All around was the unbroken expanse of sea.

To the horizon line it extended almost in a dead calm. But as the
voyagers went out on deck to enjoy the bracing air, Stanhope cried:

“Sail ho!”

It was easy to locate the sail just below the line.

It was rising rapidly, and they were evidently in the vessel’s course.

What the character of the craft was it was not easy as yet to tell.

But most of the party reckoned that it was the Southampton, until after
it had become more plainly visible.

Then it was settled beyond all doubt that it was not the English cutter.

Curiosity impelled all to wish to learn the character of the strange
vessel.

So the Dolphin headed toward her.

Every moment the two vessels drew nearer. Then Frank, who had been
studying the unknown vessel through a glass, declared:

“It is a brig of the first class and she has not yet sighted us. We are,
however, directly in her course.”

“Shall we wait and speak her?” asked Stanhope.

“I think we will.”

“Is it not curious that she has not sighted us yet?”

“I think not. You see, our boat rests so low in the water that she would
be easily overlooked.”

“Exactly. I have great curiosity to know what vessel this is, and what
her mission is in this out-of-the-way part of the world.”

“We shall soon know.”

Nearer every moment drew the unknown vessel.

And now it was seen that she had sighted the Dolphin.

This was made manifest by a gun fired from her bow.

The Dolphin could not answer save by displaying a flag. This was,
however, recognized.

Nearer the two boats drew, and soon the brig was in speaking distance.

It was seen that she floated the American flag.

Her appearance was, however, a mystery, for she did not have the bearing
of either a whaler or a trader.

But the mystery was soon solved.

“Ahoy!” came from the brig.

“Ship ahoy!” replied Frank.

“What craft are you?”

“The submarine boat Dolphin, of Readestown, U. S. A.”

“Submarine boat?”

“Yes.”

“Jewhittaker! What kind of a craft may that be?” came back the
astonished query. “Not for sailing under the sea?”

“Yes,” replied Frank, “just for that. What ship are you?”

“The ship Belden. Captain Uriah Snow, from New Bedford, U. S. A.”

“I am captain of this boat, the Dolphin, Frank Reade, Jr. I give you my
compliments.”

“The same to you. Will you not come aboard?”

“Aye, aye!”

Frank turned to Pomp and Barney and said:

“Get out the pontoon boat. We will pay Captain Uriah a visit.”




                              CHAPTER IX.
                         THE VALLEY OF PEARLS.


Barney and Pomp were not slow in obeying this command.

The pontoon was quickly out of the cabin and the air-chambers filled.

Then all three took seats in it.

Stanhope was left aboard the Dolphin to look out for matters until their
return.

Quickly the pontoon pulled over to the gangway of the Belden.

Then Frank mounted quickly to the deck, where he was met by Captain
Snow.

Barney and Pomp were left in the boat to chat and gas with the sailors
of the big brig, and they kept their end up well.

Captain Uriah Snow was a tall, shrewd-looking man of perhaps fifty years
of age.

He shook Frank’s hand warmly.

“I am glad to meet you, Captain Reade,” he said; “pray come into the
cabin.”

“Thank you.”

In the cabin, as usual, wine and the customary civilities were indulged
in. Then Captain Snow said bluntly:

“Of course you must have some mission in this part of the world with
your submarine boat, Mr. Reade?”

“I have accomplished it,” said Frank.

“Indeed!”

“Success has been mine.”

“You are fortunate. But what may your mission have been?”

Frank as briefly as possible told of the quest for the silver whale and
the object therefor.

Snow listened with interest.

“Wonderful!” he cried, as Frank finished; “it is wonderful!”

Then he sprang to his feet and paced the deck excitedly. Frank was, of
course, not a little surprised.

But Captain Uriah suddenly recollected himself and paused.

“Pardon me!” he exclaimed. “I was so deeply engrossed that I quite
forgot myself. There is a matter upon my mind which I must broach to
you. It is a great project, and I know I shall have your co-operation.”

“Indeed!” was all Frank could say.

“No doubt I surprise you; but I am very much in earnest. It is a scheme
which I have been some years in bringing about. But its safe
consummation will certainly bring me a great fortune. This I will
willingly share with you.”

Frank was interested.

“I should be pleased to know of your project,” he said.

“Good! I knew that I would get your interest. The fact that you have a
submarine boat makes me feel perfectly sure of success.”

“If I can help you in any way,” said Frank, “I shall be very happy to do
so.”

“A thousand thanks. But now let me tell you my story.

“A dozen years ago I was upon the staff of a corps of naval engineers,
sent by the Government to obtain soundings in these seas, and to make as
accurate a survey as possible of the ocean bed at this point.”

Frank nodded in reply. The subject was getting more absorbing.

“We made soundings,” continued Captain Uriah, “and came in the course of
our survey across a deep valley. At every rise of the sounding shaft
there were brought up with the mud indications of a deposit of pearls of
priceless value, as they were of the finest quality.

“We became satisfied that beneath us, and for the distance of a mile
there existed a valley of pearls in which there lay a mighty fortune.”

Frank gave a start.

“A valley of pearls!” he exclaimed. “That is indeed wonderful. I am much
interested, Captain Snow.”

“I knew that you would be. But to continue: As soon as the survey was
completed of course our cutter was obliged to return home.

“We knew that we were leaving a mighty fortune behind us, but we could
not help that.

“We were under orders and in the service of the United States
Government. Our orders had been to make soundings and a survey and then
to report at once at San Francisco.

“But, nevertheless, we took careful bearings, and felt sure that we
could return to the exact spot at some future day.

“Best-laid plans often fail, however. Before we could reach San
Francisco, we were overtaken by a terrible storm. The cutter was not
exactly seaworthy, and had ought to have been condemned before the
cruise began. She sprang a leak, and we were obliged to take to the
boats.

“Myself and Lieutenant Fish were the last to leave the vessel.

“We were left only the captain’s gig, but by the best of good fortune,
it weathered the storm, and we were picked up four days later by a
French brig.

“The other members of the cutter’s crew were never heard from. They
doubtless perished.

“Fish died in ’Frisco of the effects of our four days on the sea, and I
was the only living person possessed of the knowledge of the locality of
the valley of pearls and its bearings.

“For several years I drifted about, striving to get enough together to
procure a ship and crew and come hither. I have at last secured this
stanch vessel, and here I am.”

Frank drew a deep breath.

“In what manner do you expect to recover the pearls?” he asked.

“Ah, that has been the problem,” replied Captain Snow. “I have on board
every sort of diving apparatus. But the depth is so great that I fear
the risk of descending.”

“An ordinary diving suit would never do,” said Frank.

“But I have a plan for dredging. It is not of the most perfect kind——”

“Wait,” said Frank, with resolution. “Set all your doubts at rest. I
have a plan by which you can recover your pearls. If you will accept the
offer I will place the Dolphin at your disposal.”

A glad, eager cry escaped Captain Uriah’s lips.

“That is grand!” he cried. “I had not dared to broach the matter to you.
But I see that you are very kindly disposed to assist me. There is
fortune enough there for many and all of us.”

Frank made a deprecatory gesture.

“I care not for the fortune,” he said; “but I am interested in your
project and will gladly help you.”

“A thousand thanks!” cried Captain Uriah, wildly; “the problem is then
all settled. With your submarine boat it will be easy enough to recover
enough of the pearls to satisfy us. I shall never forget this favor, Mr.
Reade.”

“Don’t mention it,” said Frank, politely. “Are we far from the locality
of the pearl valley?”

“I believe we are not a dozen miles from the spot.”

“Then let us locate it at once. If you will come aboard the Dolphin it
shall be placed at your disposal.”

“I will do so.”

Captain Uriah hustled away to make provision. Soon he was at the gangway
all in readiness with mining tools and two of his crew.

They entered one of the ship’s boats and were rowed over to the Dolphin,
as the pontoon was too light to hold them all.

It had been arranged that the Belden should hover about the vicinity for
several days, or until the Dolphin should return from her submarine
quest.

Then all went aboard the Dolphin.

Frank showed Captain Uriah over the boat, explaining to him its
mechanism.

The old captain was more than interested. He was dazed.

“Well, well!” he exclaimed in a dreamy way, “I can hardly realize it
all! It seems as if I must be in some other part of the world. I cannot
understand it.”

Then Frank pressed the lever which hermetically sealed doors and
windows.

The Dolphin plunged beneath the surface. Down she went until the
electric lights showed the gleaming sands of the ocean bed.

Then began the quest for the valley of pearls.

For fully a day the Dolphin cruised about. Then the electric light
showed a half mile distant huge pillars of stone, showing the entrance
to a submarine valley or sink.

The Dolphin approached this rapidly.

Reaching the huge pillars it passed between them. The valley of pearls
was spread to view.

There they lay in heaps upon the bed of the valley. They glistened and
shone in the electric light beautifully.

Truly it was a wonderful sight. Words cannot describe the keen joy of
Captain Uriah.

He danced and sang and screamed in his delight.

“By the horn spoon!” he cried, “my fondest dreams are realized! Pearls,
pearls, beautiful pearls! Truly they are gorgeous beyond all
description.”

Even the phlegmatic voyagers of the Dolphin, who had become hardened to
the wonders of the sea, could not help but admire the display.

“Upon my word!” cried Stanhope, “I don’t mind possessing a few of those
gems myself.”

The Dolphin was allowed to rest upon the bottom. Then Frank brought out
some diving suits.

Captain Uriah wanted suits for himself and his men. Fortunately there
were enough, and Frank did not demur.

It was arranged that they should go out and gather the richest of the
pearls, and that they should return as soon as this was done.

None of the Dolphins party decided to participate in the quest.

So donning the diving suits Captain Uriah and his men left the Dolphin.

It required some little time for them to get accustomed to the pressure
of the water upon their helmets.

But they finally overcame this and began to mine for the pearls.

This was slow work and not altogether fruitful.

While there were thousands of the pearls upon the bed of the valley,
only a few of them were fit to preserve.

Many were imperfect, many crumbled to powder, and only one in fifty was
a perfect and valuable gem.

But there were, all the same, many rare, beautiful and valuable
specimens, and these Captain Uriah diligently searched for.

For hours the pearl miners worked, and with much success. Then suddenly
Captain Uriah threw up his arms and fell in a heap.

Barney, who was in the pilot-house saw this, and gave a yell of wild
alarm.




                               CHAPTER X.
                               THE STORM.


The Celt knew fully what was the trouble with Captain Uriah.

The pressure upon the helmet had lasted so long that faintness or
syncope had descended upon the luckless man.

There was danger that he would die before he could be got aboard the
Dolphin, and Barney realized this.

So he yelled:

“Misther Frank, for the love av Heaven, cum quick! Shure there’s the
divil to pay! The captain has been overcome, sor!”

Frank needed no second bidding.

Quick as a flash he rushed into the cabin. He sprang into a diving suit,
locked the helmet with a click, set the generator going, and then sprang
into the vestibule.

All this was done with great rapidity.

Then he opened the outer door and was in the sea.

The companions of Captain Uriah were staggering from the same cause.

They had been too long subjected to the pressure.

Frank motioned to them to go aboard the Dolphin instantly.

Then he sprang to Captain Uriah’s side.

The captain lay partly upon his back, and Frank saw through the helmet
window that his face was horribly distorted.

The young inventor instantly picked him up bodily and started for the
Dolphin.

He reached the rail and dragged the overcome man into the vestibule.

It was but a moment’s work to close the door and expel the water. Then
Frank tore away the helmet clasps.

Captain Uriah was like one dead. But Barney had appeared on the scene
instantly with a stimulant.

This was administered, and in a few moments all were overjoyed to see
the old captain revive.

He opened his eyes and looked about him.

“It was a close call, my friend,” said Frank, cheerily, “but we’ve
pulled you through.”

Captain Uriah remained in a sitting posture.

“What happened?” he asked, feebly.

“You were overcome,” said Stanhope.

“Overcome?”

“Yes.”

“How did that happen?”

“Why, you simply stayed out there in the water too long. The pressure
was too great for a beginner like you.”

Captain Uriah nodded his head slowly.

“Maybe you are right,” he said. “But why didn’t it affect the others
so?”

“It did,” replied Frank. “They have come aboard also.”

“Ugh!” exclaimed the captain, struggling to his feet. “I’ll be all right
in a little while, but the pearls——”

“Are all safe,” said Frank. “Pomp went out and got them.”

This was true. While they were resuscitating the captain, Pomp had gone
out and brought in the sack of pearls.

Captain Uriah was soon himself again, and a few hours later came into
Frank’s cabin.

He poured out a heap of pearls on the table, and said:

“Take such of them as you want, Frank.”

“I don’t want any,” replied the young inventor. “I have no use for them,
captain. I am a rich man, anyway. You must keep them yourself.”

“Do you mean that?”

“Yes.”

“But what will repay you?”

“I ask no pay. I am pleased to have been able to serve you.”

“Well,” said Captain Uriah, bringing his hand down on the table with a
thump, “you are the biggest-hearted man I ever knew. Mark my words,
before I die I will repay you!”

Frank laughed.

“Do not ever disturb yourself about that,” he said; “it is all right.
But how much longer will we remain here?”

“Not a minute!”

“What! Have you finished your work?”

“Every bit. I have got all the fortune I want right here.”

Captain Uriah poured the pearls back into the bag. He turned to the
door. Frank arose, saying:

“Then if you are all through we will go to the surface.”

“That suits me.”

The pearl-hunting expedition was over.

Captain Snow was now possessed of what he believed would make him a very
wealthy man.

Naturally he was happy.

But he was not selfish. He intended that every member of his crew should
have a fair share.

Frank sent the Dolphin to the surface at once.

But as she came up out of the water into daylight there was revealed to
the crew a thrilling state of affairs.

A mighty yellow cloud hung from horizon to zenith, and was sweeping down
into the east.

The sea was rough and tumbling in long and uneven billows. A heavy wind
went soughing by.

A terrible storm was at hand. In fact a literal tornado threatened.

Far to the southward was a white sail.

That it was the Belden seemed a certain fact. Captain Uriah viewed the
situation anxiously.

“I hope they will get down to bare poles before this blast!” he
declared. “It is going to be a fearful one!”

“It is possible we can reach her before the storm comes on,” said Frank.

“I wish we could.”

“I will try.”

Frank shouted to Barney to put on all speed. The Dolphin shot away over
the waves like a meteor.

She was an extremely swift boat in any sea, and the heavy rollers did
not disturb her.

On she ran like a bird.

The Belden was standing up to the wind with fore and main topsails so
that Captain Uriah’s mind was easy.

Yet he was naturally desirous of reaching the ship before the storm
should strike her.

Every moment the Dolphin drew nearer. She was even sighted by the crew
of the Belden.

The flash and report of a signal gun was heard.

“We shall make it!” cried Captain Uriah, excitedly. “You shall see!”

But even as the words left his lips there came a distant bellowing
sound, a rumble like thunder, and then the storm burst.

It was a terribly grand moment.

It seemed literally as if all the elements had combined in one fearful
effort to outdo pandemonium.

Rain fell in sheets; the sea ran mountains high and tossed the frail
Dolphin about like an eggshell.

Frank saw that it was utterly impossible to reach the Belden.

He knew that the safety of his own boat depended upon prompt action.

So he opened the reservoir lever and let the boat go down.

One hundred fathoms beneath the surface the storm was not felt.

The Dolphin glided along slowly.

Captain Uriah was not a little worried about his ship.

“Have no fears,” said Frank. “She will outride it, I know. Then we will
find her safe enough.”

“She will if the lubbers handle her right,” declared the captain; “but I
am afraid they won’t.”

At least it did no good to borrow trouble, and realizing this, the
captain became more cheerful.

“What do you care?” said Stanhope. “You have a large fortune in pearls.
You can buy many such ships.”

Thus Captain Uriah was consoled.

The Dolphin cruised aimlessly about in the meanwhile.

The barometer yet showed that there was disturbance above, so those in
the cabin of the Dolphin proceeded to make themselves easy until the
storm should pass.

And now by way of diversion Barney and Pomp provided their quota in the
line of a musical entertainment.

The Celt had a genuine Irish fiddle which he solemnly asserted had been
in his family for ten generations.

“Shure, it’s dearer to me than the apple av me eye!” he declared.
“Didn’t me ancistors play it in the coort av the Oirish kings afore iver
England got her bould foot on the neck av ould Oireland!”

The amount of melody which Barney could evoke from that antiquated
fiddle was indeed wonderful.

He could rattle off jigs, and play and sing ballads by the score.

His voice was a fine baritone, and he sang well.

Pomp, on the other hand, was provided with a fund inexhaustible of negro
melodies savoring of plantation days.

He played the banjo and the bones, danced a clog dance and could sing in
a full tenor voice.

They played and sang to the company until completely exhausted. Captain
Uriah’s sailors were particularly delighted and cheered them roundly.

Thus several hours were passed in the cabin.

Frank finally went to the barometer and cried, joyfully:

“The storm is over!”

“Hurrah!” cried Captain Uriah. “Let us go to the surface.”

“Is it best?” asked the young inventor.

“Why not?”

“Darkness has come on.”

This was true. With the going down of the storm had come night.

Those on board the Dolphin under the sea had no means of knowing this
save by the chronometer.

Captain Uriah was thoughtful a moment.

Then he said:

“I think we had better, Frank.”

“All right,” agreed the young inventor. “It shall be so.”

He touched the lever and the boat sprang upward.

Up, up, she went, and rose from the depths into the night air. Above was
the moonlit sky. All around them was the storm-swept but calm sea.

Instinctively all looked for the lights of the Belden.

But even to the horizon they were not to be seen.

The ship must have been driven many miles from her course.

Here was a predicament. Captain Uriah was disposed to regard it
seriously, but Frank said:

“I should not worry at all. There is not the slightest doubt but that
she will return here. It is her best and only course.”

“Certainly it seems so!” agreed the captain; “that is if those lubbers
will have the good sense.”

“But will they not? Have you not a competent crew?”

“I think so.”

“Then do not worry any more about it.”

All night long the Dolphin rocked upon the swelling but peaceful sea.
All on board were very tired.

Barney kept watch the first of the night, and Pomp the latter part. At
length daylight came once more.

And as the sun rose up out of the sea it revealed a surprising
spectacle.




                              CHAPTER XI.
                         THE ISLAND—ON A REEF.


All night long Pomp had observed to leeward what he had regarded as a
huge cloud bank.

But now, as daylight cleared away the mists, it was revealed as a very
startling spectacle.

The cloud bank was extremely tangible, and was, in fact, nothing more
nor less than a line of coast.

It extended for many leagues to the westward, and its rugged, high
cliffs frowned most forbiddingly upon the heaving crests of the sea.

“Golly!” gasped the astonished darky, “dat jes’ beat me all out. I jes’
beliebe dat am an island.”

The darky rubbed his eyes to make sure that his vision was clear. Then
he muttered:

“I’se gwine fo’ to call Marse Frank at once. It am drefful funny!”

The darky at once went rushing down into the cabin, shouting:

“Marse Frank, fo’ de lan’ ob massy sakes, cum quick! Wha’ yo’ fink we
hab cum to, sah? It am lan’, sah, jes’ so suah as yo’ am bo’n!”

Frank, somewhat startled, sprang up and rushed out on deck.

He saw the state of affairs at once. Pomp was right.

“An island!” he gasped. “It is not on any chart. How very queer!”

Pomp’s cry had alarmed others of the crew. These now came rushing out to
view the strange spectacle.

It was a forbidding coast, with rocky shores and high bluffs, against
which the waves broke pitilessly.

So far as could be seen it furnished no harbor or refuge of any kind for
a vessel. What its vegetable or animal life was it was not easy to
guess.

A few waving pines were seen upon the cliffs, a few stunted trees of the
deciduous order also.

“Well,” muttered Captain Uriah in a mystified way, “where are we? I
never remember of a charted isle in these seas!”

“We have then made a discovery,” said Frank. “Perhaps an important one.
Who knows?”

“Shall you go ashore?”

“I have a desire to; but first let us find the ship.”

“Let us christen the isle as long as we are the discoverers!” cried
Stanhope.

“All right!” agreed Frank and the captain in one breath. “What shall it
be?”

“We will call it Pearl Island, as it was discovered so near the valley
of pearls.”

“Good!” cried Captain Uriah. “You have hit it.”

“Begorra, I wudn’t moind thryin a bit av a thramp on it mesilf,” said
Barney. “Shure, me legs are sthiff from the lack av exercise on shore.”

“Golly, dat’s right, I’ish!” cried Pomp.

“Rest easy,” said Frank. “You shall have the chance. But first I must
ease Captain Snow’s mind.”

“By no means,” protested the captain. “If it is the disposition of the
party, we will visit the isle first.”

“No,” cried Stanhope; “it is more important that we should find the
Belden first of all.”

Powerful glasses were brought into requisition, and the sea was scanned
closely, but not the slightest speck could be seen.

It was reckoned that the Belden would be blown to the northeast, so it
was decided to pursue the quest in that direction.

The Dolphin headed that way, which would carry it past the point of the
island.

She had just got under headway and was leaving the isle to the eastward
when a terrible thing occurred.

There was a sudden terrible jar, a jolt and a crash. Everybody on board
was thrown from his feet.

The Dolphin was at a standstill.

It needed no further explanation to tell Frank Reade, Jr., the truth. He
gained his feet and rushed to the rail.

The submarine boat had struck full head upon a reef!

She lay with the waves breaking over her bow.

How badly she was stove could not be seen.

Horror was upon the features of all as this dreadful realization burst
upon them.

“My goodness!” cried Stanhope, in awful despair. “We are lost! This is
the end of the Dolphin!”

“A sunken reef!” groaned Captain Uriah.

Frank Reade, Jr., said nothing. He was very pale but quite cool.

The Dolphin rocked and groaned some as the waves lifted her, and it was
evident that the heavy sea would be most disastrous.

She must be got off at once or the result would indeed be serious.

Frank studied her position for some moments, and then said:

“Bring out the diving suit, Barney. I must make an examination.”

“Do you think she can be got off, Frank?” asked Stanhope.

“I cannot say yet.”

Barney hastened to bring up the diving suit. Frank put it on and then
tied a rope around his waist.

By means of this he was lowered down into the water.

To the bottom he went, and at a point where he could see the position of
the Dolphin well.

He carried a strong electric light in his helmet. With this he could see
all objects about quite plain.

He carefully examined the position of the boat.

He saw that she rested upon a section of the jagged reef. The sharp
rocks had punctured her outer shell near the bow, and she was held as in
a vise.

Frank at once saw the futility of trying to draw her off.

Even if the power was at hand and could be employed, it would tear a
terrible hole in her.

It certainly looked as if the Dolphin was a total loss.

A more disheartening reflection than this can hardly be imagined. Frank
was quite discouraged.

However, he would not give up hope.

He continued his examination of the craft, and finally reached the
conclusion that there was only one way in which the Dolphin could be
saved.

It was a chance out of a hundred, but Frank decided to take it.

The section of reef had many cavities.

In the largest of these Frank believed a torpedo could be placed and
exploded.

This would tear the reef to pieces and doubtless dislodge the Dolphin;
but, of course, there was the chance of blowing a hole in her and
instantly sinking her.

But even if she were safely dislodged, it was possible that the hole in
her outer hull would cause her to take so much water that she would
sink.

But the young inventor was determined to act, and accordingly sent up
the signal to be drawn up.

In a few moments he was again on the deck of the Dolphin.

“Well, Frank, how is it?” cried Stanhope. “Are we lost or not?”

The young inventor shook his head.

“I cannot say yet,” he declared.

He sent Barney into the cabin for a torpedo. A wire was attached to it,
and once more Frank put on his helmet.

Again he went over the rail and down under the keel of the Dolphin.

He selected what he considered a suitable spot, and placed the torpedo
in it.

Then he signaled to be drawn up again, and soon was once more on the
deck of the Dolphin.

Removing his helmet, Frank said:

“I am going to explode a torpedo under this boat. It may dislodge her
and it may sink her. If any of you fear the consequences you may go
ashore.”

“Is it the best thing to do, Frank?” asked Stanhope, anxiously.

“It is our only chance.”

There was a moment of silence.

Captain Uriah finally said:

“I believe in sticking to the ship!”

“So do I!” cried Stanhope.

“Begorra, it’s mesilf will niver go ashore,” said Barney.

“I reckon if de ole boat go down I jes’ go down wif it,” averred Pomp.

The sailors from the Belden were of the same opinion. So Frank at once
made connection with the dynamo.

As the explosion would be under the bow, it was deemed best to get as
far away as possible.

So all went to the stern.

Frank waited for a moment when the boat was steady in its rocking. Then
he pressed the electric key.

There was a sudden shock, a muffled roar, and the Dolphin heaved and
pitched violently.

Then a great column of water shot up abaft her bows, and she was
perceptibly lifted and hurled back.

“Hurrah!” cried Frank, with the wildest of joy. “She is off the reef!”

The others gave a great cheer. It was too good to believe.

But it was the truth, just the same. The Dolphin was off the reef.

Frank sprang into the pilot-house and pressed the motive lever. She
backed away, and answered her helm readily.

For a moment the spirits of the voyagers were indeed high.

But as a thrilling event proved, this was premature.

Suddenly the Dolphin began to rock strangely, and a dull gurgling was
heard under her bow.

Frank ran to the companionway that led down into her hold, and listened
intently.

When he turned about his face was deadly pale.

“My God!” he gasped. “The Dolphin is doomed!”

“What!” cried Stanhope, in alarm. “Is she sinking?”

“She is making water fast!”

Consternation most profound seized the voyagers.

What did the future hold for them?

Luckily they were near land. But to be cast away upon a desert isle in
this part of the world was by no means a pleasant thing.

The Dolphin was sinking beyond a doubt.

“What shall we do?” cried Stanhope. “Shall we leave her, Frank?”

For one swift moment the young inventor had thought of this. But now
another plan came to him.

If the boat sank in that spot he knew she could never be redeemed. He
looked toward the shore.

There was a little sandy strip of beach in a small cove.

Frank instantly seized the wheel. She would yet answer this, and he
pressed the motive lever.

The Dolphin shot forward, headed directly for the island shore.




                              CHAPTER XII.
                            CASTAWAY—RESCUE.


Straight for the sandy beach she ran full speed.

Frank, intended to beach her. This was not a difficult thing.

Her bows were not sharp and capable of gliding over a smooth surface.
She struck the sand with a high-pitched bow.

This drove her half through the surf. The shock was tremendous.

There upon the sand lay the submarine boat. It was indeed a
disheartening sight.

Every heavy breaker washed her stern and flooded her rails. A high sea
would break over her.

Her end was assured.

She could never be floated from that position.

All that could be done was to get all portable and valuable effects
ashore.

It was easy to leap from the bow down into the surf and wade ashore.
Several did this.

Then a line was established, and the process of getting the effects
ashore was begun.

In a short while there was a great heap of stuff on the island beach.

Provisions were there in plenty, and all portable effects that would be
useful.

For hours the castaways labored thus. But ever and anon they cast
anxious glances to the horizon line to look for some sign of the Belden.

But it did not appear.

This was their only hope, that they might be able to sight and hail the
Yankee brig.

It was indeed a sad sight to see the Dolphin in its present position.

Such a triumph of inventive genius as it was, and to think that it must
now be given up to decay!

It did seem altogether wrong. But there was no help for it. Perhaps the
most philosophical of all was Frank Reade, Jr., himself.

“Never mind,” he said. “I will get up something to beat her.”

“You will do well if you do, Frank,” Stanhope said.

But the young inventor only smiled. He knew his power well.

It was now in order for the castaways to make themselves as comfortable
as possible and then explore the island.

There was a cavity in the cliffs which was sheltered from the elements,
and into it Frank caused all the provisions to be carried.

A wide sheet of canvas kept off the raw east wind. Blankets were spread
and couches made, and the castaways had soon made themselves quite
comfortable.

Nightfall came, and Captain Uriah walked out on the beach sniffing the
air, and said:

“I tell you, mates, we’re going to have a blow within twelve hours.”

“Do you believe it, captain?” asked Frank, anxiously.

“I do.”

All eyes were at once turned upon the Dolphin.

There she lay, washed by the swell.

A beautiful wreck she was. It was like bidding farewell to a dying
friend.

For all knew that the first storm would relegate the Dolphin to
oblivion.

The wind certainly was shifting into the northeast, and it looked as if
Captain Uriah’s prediction would come true.

All retired early that night.

It was almost a sleepless night for most of the party. But toward
morning a distant booming sound was heard.

Rain pattered upon the canvas which hung over the entrance to the
cavity.

The storm had come.

The wind quickly freshened into a gale. It was barely daylight, but all
arose and went out on shore.

The waves were growing mountain-like every moment.

And there they broke over the wreck of the Dolphin with thundering
force.

They crashed down upon the steel decks, and raged and seethed and hissed
furiously about their prey.

But all to no purpose.

The keen nose of the Dolphin, like that of some stranded monster of the
sea, still held its position.

But before noon the incessant waves had carried away a portion of the
port bulwarks.

This was the beginning of the end. From that moment the Dolphin broke up
rapidly.

Soon little was left of her but a few of her steel ribs; much of the
wreck was washed high upon the sands.

It was a sad party which sat on the storm-driven shore and watched the
miserable demise of the famous submarine boat.

“It’s too bad!” was all Stanhope could say.

He had carefully preserved the metal case containing the confession just
the same.

It would no doubt be a long time, however, before he could make use of
it.

Valentine Tucker must languish behind bars for some time yet.

Captain Uriah had taken good care to preserve his precious bag of
pearls.

If he never left the isle they would of course be of little value to
him. But he hoped to do this.

“I’ll save them, anyway,” he had declared. “If I ever get back to
civilization the money will come handy.”

Barney and Pomp were extremely disconsolate.

The loss of the Dolphin was to them a most serious matter.

“I done tell yo’ we am gwine fo’ to starve on dis yere old island!”
affirmed Pomp, confidently. “I done feel it in mah bones.”

“Begorra, it’s an awful place to be found dead in!” declared Barney,
moodily. “Be me sowl! I’m that lonesome I cud cry me eyes out!”

Two days slipped by.

The storm had drifted away to the eastward and was over. The sun once
more shone out clear and bright.

This revived somewhat the drooping spirits of all, and Captain Uriah
said:

“Suppose we set a signal flag for the Belden to see?”

It was certainly not a bad idea.

So a long pole was procured and upon it was nailed a huge square of
canvas. This could be seen far out to sea.

Then faggots were collected with which to keep a beacon light at night.

If the Belden should come anywhere within range of the island it could
not fail to be attracted.

But what Captain Uriah feared was that it would continue to cruise in
the same limited area, and then after a disheartening period give up the
quest and go back to San Francisco.

In that case they would be indeed badly off. Abandoned on a desert isle!
What a fearful fate!

For days they climbed the cliffs and gazed seaward, hour after hour, in
quest of the welcome sail.

But it came not.

Then a sort of grim despair began to settle down upon all. Some of them
became taciturn and morose.

Finally one day Barney and Pomp came to Frank. Pomp said:

“If yo’ please, sah, we am berry low on provisions. I done fink we hab
got to fin’ somefin’ else to eat right away, sah.”

“Bejabers, it’s afther goin’ huntin’ we’ll be,” said Barney.

“Right,” said Frank. “We will organize a party at once. Bring out the
guns, Barney.”

The Celt was only too ready to obey.

Anything which developed excitement was welcome, and he and Pomp were at
once in gay feather.

They soon procured the guns and some ammunition, and the start was made.

Frank, with Barney and Pomp, as the most experienced hunters, led the
way.

It was the first exploration of the island that had been made.

Straight for the interior Frank pushed.

As they went on, the land began to rise, and grew very rocky.

At length an elevation was reached from which a view of the whole island
could be had.

It was seen to be completely barren and unproductive.

There was no natural fruit of any kind—not even a berry or a plum.

It was a desolate waste.

Truly, to be forced to confront the fact that they must live the rest of
their lives upon this limited bit of barrenness was hard indeed.

“It makes a man feel blue,” said Stanhope. “I almost wish I had stayed
at home.”

“By my honor! I wish I had!” agreed Captain Uriah. “Poverty at home is
better than riches here.”

“But we are here,” said Frank Reade, Jr., pluckily, “And we must make
the best of it.”

“Oh, certainly,” agreed Stanhope, readily. “I am not squealing, Frank. I
took my chances and now I’ll stand by ’em.”

At this moment the report of a gun was heard at the edge of a small lake
near.

Barney had fired into a flock of ducks and had killed three. Presently
he came up with his prize.

“Begorra, it’s a foine shot I med!” he cried. “I thried for one, and, be
me sowl! hit tree av thim. Divil a bit betther cud any wan ask!”

Everybody laughed at this, and then all separated for the hunt.

There was no game upon the isle but birds. Beasts or animals of even the
smallest order did not exist.

But ducks and geese were quite plenty.

A good bag of these was secured, and then the party returned to the camp
under the cliff.

A fire was built and the game roasted. A hearty meal was partaken of,
and then all sat down in a circle about the fire and told stories and
cracked jokes until midnight.

Truly the life upon the isle was not without its bright side. How long
it would last, however, it was not easy to say.

Several days more passed, and nothing worthy of note occurred.

Then Barney strolling along the beach, made a surprising discovery. He
saw imbedded in the sand what looked like an iron capstan.

He began to dig around it, and found that it was truly a capstan; also
he traced in the sand the outlines of a vessel’s hull.

It was no doubt the wreck of a ship which had come ashore here, and sank
gradually beneath the level, owing to some quicksand formation.

Barney was busy with his examination, and was about to shout to his
friends, when a thrilling thing occurred.

Suddenly he felt the sand give way and sink downward.




                             CHAPTER XIII.
                                THE END.


Down out of sight Barney went like a flash.

As it happened, Pomp saw him disappear and set up a yell for help.

“Golly, de I’ishman am gone!” he screamed. “Come quick, Marse Frank! Cum
everybody! He am done gone!”

Down Barney fell for several feet.

When he picked himself up he was astonished.

He was in the cabin of a ship.

Sand and debris were heaped upon the floor, and there was little left to
show that it was really the cabin of a ship.

But such it was.

The Celt picked himself up to hear a voice above:

“Hi dar! Am yo’ kilt, I’ish?”

“Divil a bit!” roared the Celt. “Cum down yersilf, naygur!”

But Pomp was satisfied with gazing down into the place.

“Fo’ de lan’s sake!” he gasped; “it am de cabin ob a ship!”

“Begorra, that’s what it is!” cried Barney.

“Upon my word it is, Frank!” said Stanhope, who, with the young
inventor, had come up just at that moment. “It is a sunken vessel!”

“Deeply sunk in the shoals!” said Frank. “Truly that is very odd.”

All crowded about the cavity in the sand.

What was the name of the ship, and how long it had been in this position
it was not easy to guess.

But from what could be seen of the woodwork and the shape of the hull,
it was evidently of a very antique pattern.

Doubtless it had lain there buried for a hundred years or more. What was
the fate of its crew would never be known. Oblivion covered all.

Thoughts of this kind were surging through the mind of Frank Reade, Jr.,
as he stood there.

Who should say that they would not share the same fate as those
castaways, and perhaps find a lonely grave upon the desert isle?

Some time strangers might come and ruminate upon their fate in precisely
the same manner. It was a curious thing to ponder on.

But even as they stood thus engrossed around a headland of the isle
there swung the hull of a ship.

Her sails filled lazily in the breeze as she rounded to an anchorage.
The rattle of her chain was the first thing to apprise the castaways of
her presence.

“Great Jericho!” gasped Captain Uriah.

Then he yelled at the top of his lungs:

“Alloy! the Belden!”

The scene which follows baffles description. Barney scrambled out of his
hole.

All rushed down to the water’s edge insane with joy and excitement. A
boat put out from the Belden.

Half an hour later all their effects were safe on board the big brig.

The great voyage of the Dolphin was ended. In one sense it was a great
success.

The chief ends had been gained. The loss of the Dolphin was the
dampening feature.

Two months later the Belden arrived in San Francisco harbor. A thankful
crew disembarked.

Frank Reade, Jr., Barney and Pomp returned at once to Readestown, but
before they left the Golden Gate, Valentine Tucker was set free and
rejoined his happy family.

George Stanhope went back to Philadelphia, his home, happy as could be.
As for Captain Uriah, his valuable pearls netted him a vast fortune. And
so we write.


                                THE END.

                  *       *       *       *       *

 Read “FRANK READE, JR., AND HIS ELECTRIC CAR; OR, OUTWITTING A DESPERATE
     GANG,” which will be the next number (45) of “Frank Reade Weekly
                                Magazine.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

SPECIAL NOTICE: All back numbers of this weekly are always in print. If
you cannot obtain them from any newsdealer, send the price in money or
postage stamps by mail to FRANK TOUSEY, PUBLISHER, 24 UNION SQUARE, NEW
YORK, and you will receive the copies you order by return mail.




                              HAPPY DAYS,

           The Best Illustrated Weekly Story Paper Published.

                          ISSUED EVERY FRIDAY.

 “HAPPY DAYS” is a large 16-page paper containing Interesting Stories,
 Poems, Sketches, Comic Stories, Jokes, Answers to Correspondents, and
  many other bright features. Its Authors and Artists have a national
 reputation. No amount of money is spared to make this weekly the best
                               published.

             A NEW STORY BEGINS EVERY WEEK IN “HAPPY DAYS.”

                     OUT TO-DAY!       OUT TO-DAY!

           PHIL AND HIS FIDDLE, AND HOW IT MADE HIM GOVERNOR,

                         By H. K. SHACKLEFORD.

       _Begins in No. 465 of “HAPPY DAYS,” Issued Aug. 28, 1903._

                             PRICE 5 CENTS.

 For sale by all Newsdealers, or will be sent to any address on receipt
                              of price by

 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,      ❧      ❧      24 Union Square, New York.

                    These Books Tell You Everything!

               A COMPLETE SET IS A REGULAR ENCYCLOPEDIA!

Each book consists of sixty-four pages, printed on good paper in clear
type and neatly bound in an attractive, illustrated cover. Most of the
books are also profusely illustrated, and all of the subjects treated
upon are explained in such a simple manner that any child can thoroughly
understand them. Look over the list as classified and see if you want to
know anything about the subjects mentioned.

THESE BOOKS ARE FOR SALE BY ALL NEWSDEALERS OR WILL BE SENT BY MAIL TO
ANY ADDRESS FROM THIS OFFICE ON RECEIPT OF PRICE, TEN CENTS EACH, OR ANY
THREE BOOKS FOR TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME AS
MONEY. Address FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, N.Y.

                               MESMERISM.

No. 81. HOW TO MESMERIZE.—Containing the most approved methods of
mesmerism; also how to cure all kinds of diseases by animal magnetism,
or, magnetic healing, By Prof. Leo Hugo Koch, A. C. S., author of “How
to Hypnotize,” etc.

                               PALMISTRY.

No. 82. HOW TO DO PALMISTRY.—Containing the most approved methods of
reading the lines on the hand, together with a full explanation of their
meaning. Also explaining phrenology, and the key for telling character
by the bumps on the head. By Leo Hugo Koch, A. C. S. Fully illustrated.

                               HYPNOTISM.

No. 83. HOW TO HYPNOTIZE.—Containing valuable and instructive
information regarding the science of hypnotism. Also explaining the most
approved methods, which are employed by the leading hypnotists of the
world. By Leo Hugo Koch, A.C.S.

                               SPORTING.

No. 21. HOW TO HUNT AND FISH.—The most complete hunting and fishing
guide ever published. It contains full instructions about guns, hunting
dogs, traps, trapping and fishing, together with descriptions of game
and fish.

No. 26. HOW TO ROW, SAIL AND BUILD A BOAT.—Fully illustrated. Every boy
should know how to row and sail a boat. Full instructions are given in
this little book, together with instructions on swimming and riding,
companion sports to boating.

No. 47. HOW TO BREAK, RIDE AND DRIVE A HORSE.—A complete treatise on the
horse. Describing the most useful horses for business, the best horses
for the road; also valuable recipes for diseases peculiar to the horse.

No. 48. HOW TO BUILD AND SAIL CANOES.—A handy book for boys, containing
full directions for constructing canoes and the most popular manner of
sailing them. Fully illustrated. By C. Stansfield Hicks.

                            FORTUNE TELLING.

No. 1. NAPOLEON’S ORACULUM AND DREAM BOOK.—Containing the great oracle
of human destiny; also the true meaning of almost any kind of dreams,
together with charms, ceremonies, and curious games of cards. A complete
book.

No. 23. HOW TO EXPLAIN DREAMS.—Everybody dreams, from the little child
to the aged man and woman. This little book gives the explanation to all
kinds of dreams, together with lucky and unlucky days, and “Napoleon’s
Oraculum,” the book of fate.

No. 28. HOW TO TELL FORTUNES.—Everyone is desirous of knowing what his
future life will bring forth, whether happiness or misery, wealth or
poverty. You can tell by a glance at this little book. Buy one and be
convinced. Tell your own fortune. Tell the fortune of your friends.

No. 76. HOW TO TELL FORTUNES BY THE HAND.—Containing rules for telling
fortunes by the aid of lines of the hand, or the secret of palmistry.
Also the secret of telling future events by aid of moles, marks, scars,
etc. Illustrated. By A. Anderson.

                               ATHLETIC.

No. 6. HOW TO BECOME AN ATHLETE.—Giving full instruction for the use of
dumb bells, Indian clubs, parallel bars, horizontal bars and various
other methods of developing a good, healthy muscle; containing over
sixty illustrations. Every boy can become strong and healthy by
following the instructions contained in this little book.

No. 10. HOW TO BOX.—The art of self-defense made easy. Containing over
thirty illustrations of guards, blows, and the different positions of a
good boxer. Every boy should obtain one of these useful and instructive
books, as it will teach you how to box without an instructor.

No. 25. HOW TO BECOME A GYMNAST.—Containing full instructions for all
kinds of gymnastic sports and athletic exercises. Embracing thirty-five
illustrations. By Professor W. Macdonald. A handy and useful book.

No. 34. HOW TO FENCE.—Containing full instruction for fencing and the
use of broadsword: also instruction in archery. Described with
twenty-one practical illustrations, giving the best positions in
fencing. A complete book.

                           TRICKS WITH CARDS.

No. 51. HOW TO DO TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Containing explanations of the
general principles of sleight-of-hand applicable to card tricks; of card
tricks with ordinary cards, and not requiring sleight-of-hand; of tricks
involving sleight-of-hand, or the use of specially prepared cards. By
Professor Haffner. Illustrated.

No. 72. HOW TO DO SIXTY TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Embracing all of the latest
and most deceptive card tricks, with illustrations. By A. Anderson.

No. 77. HOW TO DO FORTY TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Containing deceptive Card
Tricks as performed by leading conjurors and magicians. Arranged for
home amusement. Fully illustrated.

                                 MAGIC.

No. 2. HOW TO DO TRICKS.—The great book of magic and card tricks,
containing full instruction on all the leading card tricks of the day,
also the most popular magical illusions as performed by our leading
magicians; every boy should obtain a copy of this book, as it will both
amuse and instruct.

No. 22. HOW TO DO SECOND SIGHT.—Heller’s second sight explained by his
former assistant, Fred Hunt, Jr. Explaining how the secret dialogues
were carried on between the magician and the boy on the stage; also
giving all the codes and signals. The only authentic explanation of
second sight.

No. 43. HOW TO BECOME A MAGICIAN.—Containing the grandest assortment of
magical illusions ever placed before the public. Also tricks with cards,
incantations, etc.

No. 68. HOW TO DO CHEMICAL TRICKS.—Containing over one hundred highly
amusing and instructive tricks with chemicals. By A. Anderson.
Handsomely illustrated.

No. 69. HOW TO DO SLEIGHT OF HAND.—Containing over fifty of the latest
and best tricks used by magicians. Also containing the secret of second
sight. Fully illustrated. By A. Anderson.

No. 70. HOW TO MAKE MAGIC TOYS.—Containing full directions for making
Magic Toys and devices of many kinds. By A. Anderson. Fully illustrated.

No. 73. HOW TO DO TRICKS WITH NUMBERS.—Showing many curious tricks with
figures and the magic of numbers. By A. Anderson. Fully illustrated.

No. 75. HOW TO BECOME A CONJUROR.—Containing tricks with Dominos, Dice,
Cups and Balls, Hats, etc. Embracing thirty-six illustrations. By A.
Anderson.

No. 78. HOW TO DO THE BLACK ART.—Containing a complete description of
the mysteries of Magic and Sleight of Hand, together with many wonderful
experiments. By A. Anderson. Illustrated.

                              MECHANICAL.

No. 29. HOW TO BECOME AN INVENTOR.—Every boy should know how inventions
originated. This book explains them all, giving examples in electricity,
hydraulics, magnetism, optics, pneumatics, mechanics, etc. The most
instructive book published.

No. 56. HOW TO BECOME AN ENGINEER.—Containing full instructions how to
proceed in order to become a locomotive engineer; also directions for
building a model locomotive; together with a full description of
everything an engineer should know.

No. 57. HOW TO MAKE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.—Full directions how to make a
Banjo, Violin, Zither, Æolian Harp, Xylophone and other musical
instruments; together with a brief description of nearly every musical
instrument used in ancient or modern times. Profusely illustrated. By
Algernon S. Fitzgerald, for twenty years bandmaster of the Royal Bengal
Marines.

No. 59. HOW TO MAKE A MAGIC LANTERN.—Containing a description of the
lantern, together with its history and invention. Also full directions
for its use and for painting slides. Handsomely illustrated. By John
Allen.

No. 71. HOW TO DO MECHANICAL TRICKS.—Containing complete instructions
for performing over sixty Mechanical Tricks. By A. Anderson. Fully
illustrated.

                            LETTER WRITING.

No. 11. HOW TO WRITE LOVE-LETTERS.—A most complete little book,
containing full directions for writing love-letters, and when to use
them, giving specimen letters for young and old.

No. 12. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS TO LADIES.—Giving complete instructions for
writing letters to ladies on all subjects; also letters of introduction,
notes and requests.

No. 24. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS TO GENTLEMEN.—Containing full directions
for writing to gentlemen on all subjects; also giving sample letters for
instruction.

No. 53. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS.—A wonderful little book, telling you how
to write to your sweetheart, your father, mother, sister, brother,
employer; and, in fact, everybody and anybody you wish to write to.
Every young man and every young lady in the land should have this book.

No. 74. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS CORRECTLY.—Containing full instructions for
writing letters on almost any subject; also rules for punctuation and
composition, with specimen letters.




                            PLUCK AND LUCK.
          CONTAINS ALL SORTS OF STORIES. EVERY STORY COMPLETE.
     32 PAGES.      BEAUTIFULLY COLORED COVERS.      PRICE 5 CENTS.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  198 A Monte Cristo at 18; or, From Slave to Avenger. By Allyn
        Draper.

  199 The Floating Gold Mine; or, Adrift In an Unknown Sea. By Capt.
        Thos. H. Wilson.

  200 Moll Pitcher’s Boy; or, As Brave as His Mother. By Gen’l Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  201 “We.” By Richard R. Montgomery.

  202 Jack Wright and His Ocean Racer; or, Around the World In 20
        Days. By “Noname.”

  203 The Boy Pioneers; or, Tracking an Indian Treasure. By Allyn
        Draper.

  204 Still Alarm Sam, the Daring Boy Fireman; or, Sure to Be On Hand.
        By Ex-Fire Chief Warden.

  205 Lost on the Ocean; or, Ben Bluff’s Last Voyage. By Capt. Thos.
        H. Wilson.

  206 Jack Wright and His Electric Canoe; or, Working in the Revenue
        Service. By “Noname.”

  207 Give Him a Chance; or, How Tom Curtis Won His Way. By Howard
        Austin.

  208 Jack and I; or, The Secrets of King Pharaoh’s Caves. By Richard
        R. Montgomery.

  209 Buried 5,000 Years; or, The Treasure of the Aztecs. By Allyn
        Draper.

  210 Jack Wright’s Air and Water Cutter; or, Wonderful Adventures on
        the Wing and Afloat. By “Noname.”

  211 The Broken Bottle; or, A Jolly Good Fellow. A True Temperance
        Story. By Jno. B. Dowd.

  212 Slippery Ben; or, The Boy Spy of the Revolution. By Gen’l Jas.
        A. Gordon.

  213 Young Davy Crockett; or, The Hero of Silver Gulch. By An Old
        Scout.

  214 Jack Wright and His Magnetic Motor; or, The Golden City of the
        Sierras. By “Noname.”

  215 Little Mac, The Boy Engineer; or, Bound To Do His Best. By Jas.
        C. Merritt.

  216 The Boy Money King; or, Working In Wall Street. A Story of a
        Smart New York Boy. By H. K. Shackleford.

  217 “I.” A Story of Strange Adventure. By Richard R. Montgomery.

  218 Jack Wright, The Boy Inventor, and His Under-Water Ironclad; or,
        The Treasure of the Sandy Sea. By “Noname.”

  219 Gerald O’Grady’s Grit; or, The Branded Irish Lad. By Allyn
        Draper.

  220 Through Thick and Thin; or, Our Boys Abroad. By Howard Austin.

  221 The Demon of the Deep; or, Above and Beneath the Sea. By Capt.
        Thos. H. Wilson.

  222 Jack Wright and His Electric Deers; or, Fighting the Bandits of
        the Black Hills. By “Noname.”

  223 At 12 o’clock; or, The Mystery of the Lighthouse. A Story of the
        Revolution. By Gen. Jas. A. Gordon.

  224 The Rival Boat Clubs; or, The Boss School at Beechwood. By Allyn
        Draper.

  225 The Haunted House on the Hudson; or, the Smugglers of the Sound.
        By Jas. C. Merritt.

  226 Jack Wright and His Prairie Engine, or Among the Bushmen of
        Australia. By “Noname.”

  227 A Million at 20; or, Fighting His Way In Wall Street. By H. K.
        Shackleford.

  228 Hook and Ladder No. 2. By Ex-Fire Chief Warden.

  229 On Deck; or, The Boy Pilot of Lake Erie. By Allyn Draper.

  230 Locomotive Fred; or, Life on the Railroad. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  231 Jack Wright and His Electric Air Schooner; or, The Mystery of a
        Magic Mine. By “Noname.”

  232 Philadelphia Phil; or, From a Bootblack to a Merchant. By Howard
        Austin.

  233 Custer’s Last Shot; or, The Boy Trailer of the Little Horn. By
        An Old Scout.

  234 The Rival Rangers; or, The Sons of Freedom. By Gen. Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  235 Old Sixty-Nine; or, The Prince of Engineers. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  236 Among the Fire-Worshippers; or, Two New York Boys in Mexico. By
        Howard Austin.

  237 Jack Wright and his Electric Sea Motor; or, The Search for a
        Drifting Wreck. By “Noname.”

  238 Twenty Years on an Island; or, The Story of a Castaway. By Capt.
        Thos. H. Wilson.

  239 Colorado Carl; or, The King of the Saddle. By An Old Scout.

  240 Hook and Ladder Jack, the Daring Young Fireman. By Ex-Fire Chief
        Warden.

  241 Ice-Bound; or, Among the Floes. By Berton Bertrew.

  242 Jack Wright and His Ocean Sleuth-Hound; or, Tracking an
        Under-Water Treasure. By “Noname.”

  243 The Fatal Glass; or, The Traps and Snares of New York. A True
        Temperance Story. By Jno. B. Dowd.

  244 The Maniac Engineer; or, A Life’s Mystery. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  245 Jack Wright and His Electric Locomotive; or, The Lost Mine of
        Death Valley. By “Noname.”

  246 The Ten Boy Scouts. A Story of the Wild West. By An Old Scout.

  247 Young Hickory, the Spy; or, Man, Woman, or Boy. By Gen’l Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  248 Dick Bangle, the Boy Actor. By N. S. Wood (The Young American
        Actor).

  249 A New York Boy in the Soudan; or, The Mahdi’s Slave. By Howard
        Austin.

  250 Jack Wright and His Electric Balloon Ship; or, 30,000 Leagues
        Above the Earth. By “Noname.”

  251 The Game-Cock of Deadwood. A Story of the Wild Northwest. By Jas
        C. Merritt.

  252 Harry Hook, the Boy Fireman of No. 1; or, Always at His Post. By
        Ex-Fire Chief Warden.

  253 The Waifs of New York. By N. S. Woods (The Young American
        Actor).

  254 Jack Wright and His Dandy of the Deep; or, Driven Afloat in the
        Sea of Fire. By “Noname.”

  255 In the Sea of Ice; or, The Perils of a Boy Whaler. By Berton
        Bertrew.

  256 Mad Anthony Wayne, the Hero of Stony Point. By Gen’l. Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  257 The Arkansas Scout; or, Fighting the Redskins. By An Old Scout.

  258 Jack Wright’s Demon of the Plains; or, Wild Adventures Among the
        Cowboys.

  259 The Merry Ten; or, The Shadows of a Social Club. By Jno. B.
        Dowd.

  260 Dan Driver, the Boy Engineer of the Mountain Express; or,
        Railroading on the Denver and Rio Grande.

  261 Silver Sam of Santa Fe; or, The Lions’ Treasure Cave. By An Old
        Scout.

  262 Jack Wright and His Electric Torpedo Ram; or, The Sunken City of
        the Atlantic. By “Noname.”

  263 The Rival Schools; or, Fighting for the Championship. By Allyn
        Draper.

  264 Jack Reef, the Boy Captain; or, Adventures on the Ocean. By
        Capt. Thos. H. Wilson.

  265 A Boy in Wall Street; or, Dick Hatch, the Young Broker. By H. K.
        Shackleford.

  266 Jack Wright and his Iron-Clad Air Motor; or, Searching for a
        Lost Explorer. By “Noname.”

  267 The Rival Base Ball Clubs; or, The Champions of Columbia
        Academy. By Allyn Draper.

  268 The Boy Cattle King; or, Frank Fordham’s Wild West Ranch. By An
        Old Scout.

  269 Wide Awake Will, The Plucky Boy Fireman of No. 3; or, Fighting
        the Flames for Fame and Fortune. By Ex-Fire Chief Warden.

  270 Jack Wright and His Electric Tricycle; or, Fighting the
        Stranglers of the Crimson Desert. By “Noname.”

  271 The Orphans of New York. A Pathetic Story of a Great City. By N.
        S. Wood (the Young American Actor).

  272 Sitting Bull’s Last Shot; or, The Vengeance of an Indian
        Policeman. By Pawnee Bill.

  273 The Haunted House on the Harlem; or, The Mystery of a Missing
        Man. By Howard Austin.

  274 Jack Wright and His Ocean Plunger; or, The Harpoon Hunters of
        the Arctic. By “Noname”

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                      24 Union Square, New York

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

  FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.        ....190

  DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

  .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos....................................
  .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos................................
  .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos..............................
  .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos..................................
  .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos..................................
  .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos.........................
  .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos.............................

  Name.......... Street and No. ............ Town.......... State.....

[Illustration: WORK AND WIN]




                             WORK AND WIN.

                       The Best Weekly Published.
                  ALL THE NUMBERS ARE ALWAYS IN PRINT.
                  READ ONE AND YOU WILL READ THEM ALL.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  147 Fred Fearnot’s Little Scrap; or, The Fellow Who Wouldn’t Stay
        Whipped.

  148 Fred Fearnot’s Greatest Danger; or, Ten Days With the
        Moonshiners.

  149 Fred Fearnot and the Kidnappers; or, Trailing a Stolen Child.

  150 Fred Fearnot’s Quick Work; or, The Hold-Up at Eagle Pass.

  151 Fred Fearnot at Silver Gulch; or, Defying a Ring.

  152 Fred Fearnot on the Border; or, Punishing the Mexican Horse
        Stealers.

  153 Fred Fearnot’s Charmed Life; or, Running the Gauntlet.

  154 Fred Fearnot Lost; or, Missing for Thirty Days.

  155 Fred Fearnot’s Rescue; or, The Mexican Pocahontas.

  156 Fred Fearnot and the “White Caps”; or, A Queer Turning of the
        Tables.

  157 Fred Fearnot and the Medium; or, Having Fun with the “Spirits”.

  158 Fred Fearnot and the “Mean Man”; or, The Worst He Ever Struck.

  159 Fred Fearnot’s Gratitude; or, Backing Up a Plucky Boy.

  160 Fred Fearnot Fined; or, The Judge’s Mistake.

  161 Fred Fearnot’s Comic Opera; or, The Fun that Raised the Funds.

  162 Fred Fearnot and the Anarchists; or, The Burning of the Red
        Flag.

  163 Fred Fearnot’s Lecture Tour; or, Going it Alone.

  164 Fred Fearnot’s “New Wild West”; or, Astonishing the Old East.

  165 Fred Fearnot in Russia; or, Banished by the Czar.

  166 Fred Fearnot in Turkey; or, Defying the Sultan.

  167 Fred Fearnot in Vienna; or, The Trouble on the Danube.

  168 Fred Fearnot and the Kaiser; or, In the Royal Palace at Berlin.

  169 Fred Fearnot in Ireland; or, Watched by the Constabulary.

  170 Fred Fearnot Homeward Bound; or, Shadowed by Scotland Yard.

  171 Fred Fearnot’s Justice; or, The Champion of the School Marm.

  172 Fred Fearnot and the Gypsies; or, The Mystery of a Stolen Child.

  173 Fred Fearnot’s Silent Hunt; or, Catching the “Green Goods” Men.

  174 Fred Fearnot’s Big Day; or, Harvard and Yale at New Era.

  175 Fred Fearnot and “The Doctor”; or, The Indian Medicine Fakir.

  176 Fred Fearnot and the Lynchers; or, Saving a Girl Horse Thief.

  177 Fred Fearnot’s Wonderful Feat; or, The Taming of Black Beauty.

  178 Fred Fearnot’s Great Struggle; or, Downing a Senator.

  179 Fred Fearnot’s Jubilee; or, New Era’s Greatest Day.

  180 Fred Fearnot and Samson; or, “Who Runs This Town?”

  181 Fred Fearnot and the Rioters; or, Backing Up the Sheriff.

  182 Fred Fearnot and the Stage Robber; or, His Chase for a Stolen
        Diamond.

  183 Fred Fearnot at Cripple Creek; or, The Masked Fiends of the
        Mines.

  184 Fred Fearnot and the Vigilantes; or, Up Against the Wrong Man.

  185 Fred Fearnot in New Mexico; or, Saved by Terry Olcott.

  186 Fred Fearnot in Arkansas; or, The Queerest of All Adventures.

  187 Fred Fearnot in Montana; or, The Dispute at Rocky Hill.

  188 Fred Fearnot and the Mayor; or, The Trouble at Snapping Shoals.

  189 Fred Fearnot’s Big Hunt; or, Camping on the Columbia River.

  190 Fred Fearnot’s Hard Experience; or, Roughing it at Red Gulch.

  191 Fred Fearnot Stranded; or, How Terry Olcott Lost the Money.

  192 Fred Fearnot in the Mountains; or, Held at Bay by Bandits.

  193 Fred Fearnot’s Terrible Risk; or, Terry Olcott’s Reckless
        Venture.

  194 Fred Fearnot’s Last Card; or, The Game that Saved His Life.

  195 Fred Fearnot and the Professor; or, The Man Who Knew It All.

  196 Fred Fearnot’s Big Scoop; or, Beating a Thousand Rivals.

  197 Fred Fearnot and the Raiders; or, Fighting for His Belt.

  198 Fred Fearnot’s Great Risk; or, One Chance In a Thousand.

  199 Fred Fearnot as a Sleuth; or, Running Down a Slick Villain.

  200 Fred Fearnot’s New Deal; or, Working for a Banker.

  201 Fred Fearnot In Dakota; or, The Little Combination Ranch.

  202 Fred Fearnot and the Road Agents; or, Terry Olcott’s Cool Nerve.

  203 Fred Fearnot and the Amazon; or, The Wild Woman of the Plains.

  204 Fred Fearnot’s Training School; or, How to Make a Living.

  205 Fred Fearnot and the Stranger; or, The Long Man who was Short.

  206 Fred Fearnot and the Old Trapper; or, Searching for a Lost
        Cavern.

  207 Fred Fearnot In Colorado; or, Running a Sheep Ranch.

  208 Fred Fearnot at the Ball; or, The Girl In the Green Mask.

  209 Fred Fearnot and the Duellist; or, The Man Who Wanted to Fight.

  210 Fred Fearnot on the Stump; or, Backing an Old Veteran.

  211 Fred Fearnot’s New Trouble; or, Up Against a Monopoly.

  212 Fred Fearnot as Marshal; or, Commanding the Peace.

  213 Fred Fearnot and “Wally”; or, The Good Natured Bully of Badger.

  214 Fred Fearnot and the Miners; or, The Trouble At Coppertown.

  215 Fred Fearnot and the “Blind Tigers”; or, More Ways Than One.

  216 Fred Fearnot and the Hindoo; or, The Wonderful Juggler at
        Coppertown.

  217 Fred Fearnot Snow Bound; or, Fun with Pericles Smith.

  218 Fred Fearnot’s Great Fire Fight; or, Rescuing a Prairie School.

  219 Fred Fearnot in New Orleans; or, Up Against the Mafia.

  220 Fred Fearnot and the Haunted House; or, Unraveling a Great
        Mystery.

  221 Fred Fearnot on the Mississippi; or, The Blackleg’s Murderous
        Plot.

  222 Fred Fearnot’s Wolf Hunt; or, A Battle for Life in the Dark.

  223 Fred Fearnot and the “Greaser”; or, The Fight to Death with
        Lariats.

  224 Fred Fearnot In Mexico; or, Fighting the Revolutionists.

  225 Fred Fearnot’s Daring Bluff; or, The Nerve that Saved His Life.

  226 Fred Fearnot and the Grave Digger; or, The Mystery of a
        Cemetery.

  227 Fred Fearnot’s Wall Street Deal; or, Between the Bulls and the
        Bears.

  228 Fred Fearnot and “Mr. Jones”; or, The Insurance Man In Trouble.

  229 Fred Fearnot’s Big Gift; or, A Week at Old Avon.

  230 Fred Fearnot and the “Witch”; or, Exposing an Old Fraud.

  231 Fred Fearnot’s Birthday: or, A Big Time at New Era.

  232 Fred Fearnot and the Sioux Chief; or, Searching for a Lost Girl.

  233 Fred Fearnot’s Mortal Enemy; or, The Man on the Black Horse.

  234 Fred Fearnot at Canyon Castle; or, Entertaining His Friends.

  235 Fred Fearnot and the Commanche; or, Teaching a Redskin a Lesson.

  236 Fred Fearnot Suspected; or, Trailed by a Treasury Sleuth.

  237 Fred Fearnot and the Promoter; or, Breaking Up a Big Scheme.

  238 Fred Fearnot and “Old Grizzly”; or, The Man Who Didn’t Know.

  239 Fred Fearnot’s Rough Riders; or, Driving Out the Squatters.

  240 Fred Fearnot and the Black Fiend; or, Putting Down a Riot.

  241 Fred Fearnot in Tennessee; or, The Demon of the Mountains.

  242 Fred Fearnot and the “Terror;” or, Calling Down a Bad Man.

  243 Fred Fearnot in West Virginia; or, Helping the Revenue Agents.

  244 Fred Fearnot and His Athletes; or, A Great Charity Tour.

  245 Fred Fearnot’s Strange Adventure; or, The Queer Old Man of the
        Mountain.

  246 Fred Fearnot and the League; or, Up Against a Bad Lot.

  247 Fred Fearnot’s Wonderful Race; or, Beating a Horse on Foot.

  248 Fred Fearnot and the Wrestler; or, Throwing a Great Champion.

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                      24 Union Square, New York

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

  FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.        ....190

  DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

  .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos....................................
  .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos................................
  .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos..............................
  .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos..................................
  .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos..................................
  .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos.........................
  .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos.............................

  Name.......... Street and No. ............ Town.......... State....




                        THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76.

    A Weekly Magazine containing Stories of the American Revolution.

                            By HARRY MOORE.

These stories are based on actual facts and give a faithful account of
the exciting adventures of a brave band of American youths who were
always ready and willing to imperil their lives for the sake of helping
along the gallant cause of Independence. Every number will consist of 32
large pages of reading matter, bound in a beautiful colored cover.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  60 The Liberty Boys Bombarded; or, A Very Warm Time.

  61 The Liberty Boys’ Sealed Orders; or, Going It Blind.

  62 The Liberty Boys’ Daring Stroke; or, With “Light-Horse Harry” at
        Paulus Hook.

  63 The Liberty Boys’ Lively Times; or, Here, There and Everywhere.

  64 The Liberty Boys’ “Lone Hand”; or, Fighting Against Great Odds.

  65 The Liberty Boys’ Mascot; or, The Idol of the Company.

  66 The Liberty Boys’ Wrath; or, Going for the Redcoats Roughshod.

  67 The Liberty Boys’ Battle for Life; or, The Hardest Struggle of
        All.

  68 The Liberty Boys’ Lost; or, The Trap That Did Not Work.

  69 The Liberty Boys’ “Jonah”; or, Tho Youth Who “Queered”
        Everything.

  70 The Liberty Boys’ Decoy; or, Baiting the British.

  71 The Liberty Boys Lured; or, The Snare the Enemy Set.

  72 The Liberty Boys’ Ransom: or, In the Hands of the Tory Outlaws.

  73 The Liberty Boys as Sleuth-Hounds; or, Trailing Benedict Arnold.

  74 The Liberty Boys “Swoop”; or, Scattering the Redcoats Like Chaff.

  75 The Liberty Boys’ “Hot Time”; or, Lively Work in Old Virginia.

  76 The Liberty Boys’ Daring Scheme; or, Their Plot to Capture the
        King’s Son.

  77 The Liberty Boys’ Bold Move; or, Into the Enemy’s Country.

  78 The Liberty Boys’ Beacon Light; or, The Signal on the Mountain.

  79 The Liberty Boys’ Honor; or, The Promise That Was Kept.

  80 The Liberty Boys’ “Ten Strike”; or, Bowling the British Over.

  81 The Liberty Boys’ Gratitude, and How they Showed It.

  82 The Liberty Boys and the Georgia Giant; or, A Hard Man to Handle.

  83 The Liberty Boys’ Dead Line; or, “Cross it if You Dare!”

  84 The Liberty Boys “Hoo-Dooed”; or, Trouble at Every Turn.

  85 The Liberty Boys’ Leap for Life; or, The Light that Led Them.

  86 The Liberty Boys’ Indian Friend; or, The Redskin who Fought for
        Independence.

  87 The Liberty Boys “Going it Blind”; or, Taking Big Chances.

  88 The Liberty Boys’ Black Band; or, Bumping the British Hard.

  89 The Liberty Boys’ “Hurry Call”; or, A Wild Dash to Save a Friend.

  90 The Liberty Boys’ Guardian Angel; or, The Beautiful Maid of the
        Mountain.

  91 The Liberty Boys’ Brave Stand; or, Set Back but Not Defeated.

  92 The Liberty Boys “Treed”; or, Warm Work in the Tall Timber.

  93 The Liberty Boys’ Dare; or, Backing the British Down.

  94 The Liberty Boys’ Best Blows; or, Beating the British at
        Bennington.

  95 The Liberty Boys in New Jersey; or, Boxing the Ears of the
        British Lion.

  96 The Liberty Boys’ Daring; or, Not Afraid of Anything.

  97 The Liberty Boys’ Long March; or, The Move that Puzzled the
        British.

  98 The Liberty Boys’ Bold Front; or, Hot Times on Harlem Heights.

  99 The Liberty Boys in New York; or, Helping to Hold the Great City.

  100 The Liberty Boys’ Big Risk; or, Ready to Take Chances.

  101 The Liberty Boys’ Drag-Net; or, Hauling the Redcoats In.

  102 The Liberty Boys’ Lightning Work; or, Too Fast for the British.

  103 The Liberty Boys’ Lucky Blunder; or, The Mistake that Helped
        Them.

  104 The Liberty Boys’ Shrewd Trick: or, Springing a Big Surprise.

  105 The Liberty Boys’ Cunning; or, Outwitting the Enemy.

  106 The Liberty Boys’ “Big Hit”; or, Knocking the Redcoats Out.

  107 The Liberty Boys “Wild Irishman”; or, A Lively Lad from Dublin.

  108 The Liberty Boys’ Surprise; or, Not Just What They Were Looking
        For.

  109 The Liberty Boys’ Treasure; or, A Lucky Find.

  110 The Liberty Boys in Trouble; or, A Bad Run of Luck.

  111 The Liberty Boys’ Jubilee; or, A Great Day for the Great Cause.

  112 The Liberty Boys Cornered; or, “Which Way Shall We Turn?”

  113 The Liberty Boys at Valley Forge; or, Enduring Terrible
        Hardships.

  114 The Liberty Boys Missing; or, Lost in the Swamps.

  115 The Liberty Boys’ Wager, And How They Won It.

  116 The Liberty Boys Deceived; or, Tricked but Not Beaten.

  117 The Liberty Boys and the Dwarf; or, A Dangerous Enemy.

  118 The Liberty Boys’ Dead-Shots; or, The Deadly Twelve.

  119 The Liberty Boys’ League; or, The Country Boys Who Helped.

  120 The Liberty Boys’ Neatest Trick; or, How the Redcoats were
        Fooled.

  121 The Liberty Boys Stranded; or, Afoot In the Enemy’s Country.

  122 The Liberty Boys In the Saddle; or, Lively Work for Liberty’s
        Cause.

  123 The Liberty Boys’ Bonanza; or, Taking Toll from the Tories.

  124 The Liberty Boys at Saratoga; or, The Surrender of Burgoyne.

  125 The Liberty Boys and “Old Put”; or, The Escape at Horseneck.

  126 The Liberty Boys Bugle Call; or, The Plot to Poison Washington.

  127 The Liberty Boys and “Queen Esther”; or, The Wyoming Valley
        Massacre.

  128 The Liberty Boys’ Horse Guard; or, On the High Hills of Santee.

  129 The Liberty Boys and Aaron Burr; or, Battling for Independence.

  130 The Liberty Boys and the “Swamp Fox”; or, Helping Marlon.

  131 The Liberty Boys and Ethan Allen; or, Old and Young Veterans.

  132 The Liberty Boys and the King’s Spy; or, Diamond Cut Diamond.

  133 The Liberty Boys’ Bayonet Charge; or, The Siege of Yorktown.

  134 The Liberty Boys and Paul Jones; or, The Martyrs of the Prison
        Ships.

  135 The Liberty Boys at Bowling Green; or, Smashing the King’s
        Statue.

  136 The Liberty Boys and Nathan Hale: or, The Brave Patriot Spy.

  137 The Liberty Boys’ “Minute Men”; or, The Battle of the Cow Pens.

  138 The Liberty Boys and the Traitor; or, How They Handled Him.

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                      24 Union Square, New York

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

  FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.        ....190

  DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

  .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos....................................
  .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos................................
  .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos..............................
  .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos..................................
  .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos..................................
  .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos.........................
  .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos.............................

  Name.......... Street and No. ............ Town.......... State.....

                               THE STAGE.

No. 41. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK END MEN’S JOKE BOOK.—Containing a great
variety of the latest jokes used by the most famous end men. No amateur
minstrels is complete without this wonderful little book.

No. 42. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK STUMP SPEAKER.—Containing a varied
assortment of stump speeches, Negro, Dutch and Irish. Also end men’s
jokes. Just the thing for home amusement and amateur shows.

No. 45. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK MINSTREL GUIDE AND JOKE BOOK.—Something new
and very instructive. Every boy should obtain this book, as it contains
full instructions for organizing an amateur minstrel troupe.

No. 65. MULDOON’S JOKES.—This is one of the most original joke books
ever published, and it is brimful of wit and humor. It contains a large
collection of songs, jokes, conundrums, etc., of Terrence Muldoon, the
great wit, humorist, and practical joker of the day. Every boy who can
enjoy a good substantial joke should obtain a copy immediately.

No. 79. HOW TO BECOME AN ACTOR.—Containing complete instructions how to
make up for various characters on the stage; together with the duties of
the Stage Manager, Prompter, Scenic Artist and Property Man. By a
prominent Stage Manager.

No. 80. GUS WILLIAMS’ JOKE BOOK.—Containing the latest jokes, anecdotes
and funny stories of this world-renowned and ever popular German
comedian. Sixty-four pages; handsome colored cover containing a
half-tone photo of the author.

                             HOUSEKEEPING.

No. 16. HOW TO KEEP A WINDOW GARDEN.—Containing full instructions for
constructing a window garden either in town or country, and the most
approved methods for raising beautiful flowers at home. The most
complete book of the kind ever published.

No. 30. HOW TO COOK.—One of the most instructive books on cooking ever
published. It contains recipes for cooking meats, fish, game, and
oysters; also pies, puddings, cakes and all kinds of pastry, and a grand
collection of recipes by one of our most popular cooks.

No. 37. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE.—It contains information for everybody, boys,
girls, men and women; it will teach you how to make almost anything
around the house, such as parlor ornaments, brackets, cements, Æolian
harps, and bird lime for catching birds.

                              ELECTRICAL.

No. 46. HOW TO MAKE AND USE ELECTRICITY.—A description of the wonderful
uses of electricity and electro magnetism; together with full
instructions for making Electric Toys, Batteries, etc. By George Trebel,
A. M., M. D. Containing over fifty illustrations.

No. 64. HOW TO MAKE ELECTRICAL MACHINES.—Containing full directions for
making electrical machines, induction coils, dynamos, and many novel
toys to be worked by electricity. By R. A. R. Bennett. Fully
illustrated.

No. 67. HOW TO DO ELECTRICAL TRICKS.—Containing a large collection of
instructive and highly amusing electrical tricks, together with
illustrations. By A. Anderson.

                             ENTERTAINMENT.

No. 9. How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST—By Harry Kennedy. The secret given
away. Every intelligent boy reading this book of instructions, by a
practical professor (delighting multitudes every night, with his
wonderful imitations), can master the art, and create any amount of fun
for himself and friends. It is the greatest book ever published, and
there’s millions (of fun) in it.

No. 20. HOW TO ENTERTAIN AN EVENING PARTY.—A very valuable little book
just published. A complete compendium of games, sports, card diversions,
comic recitations, etc., suitable for parlor or drawing-room
entertainment. It contains more for the money than any book published.

No. 35. HOW TO PLAY GAMES.—A complete and useful little book, containing
the rules and regulations of billiards, bagatelle, backgammon, croquet,
dominoes, etc.

No. 36. HOW TO SOLVE CONUNDRUMS.—Containing all the leading conundrums
of the day, amusing riddles, curious catches and witty sayings.

No. 52. HOW TO PLAY CARDS.—A complete and handy little book, giving the
rules and full directions for playing Euchre, Cribbage, Casino,
Forty-Five, Rounce, Pedro Sancho, Draw Poker, Auction Pitch, All Fours,
and many other popular games of cards.

No. 66. HOW TO DO PUZZLES.—Containing over three hundred interesting
puzzles and conundrums, with key to same. A complete book. Fully
illustrated. By A. Anderson.

                               ETIQUETTE.

No. 13. HOW TO DO IT; OR, BOOK OF ETIQUETTE.—It is a great life secret,
and one that every young man desires to know all about. There’s
happiness in it.

No. 33. HOW TO BEHAVE.—Containing the rules and etiquette of good
society and the easiest and most approved methods of appearing to good
advantage at parties, balls, the theatre, church, and in the
drawing-room.

                              DECLAMATION.

No. 27. HOW TO RECITE AND BOOK OF RECITATIONS.—Containing the most
popular selections in use, comprising Dutch dialect, French dialect,
Yankee and Irish dialect pieces, together with many standard readings.

No. 31. HOW TO BECOME A SPEAKER.—Containing fourteen illustrations,
giving the different positions requisite to become a good speaker,
reader and elocutionist. Also containing gems from all the popular
authors of prose and poetry, arranged in the most simple and concise
manner possible.

No. 49. HOW TO DEBATE.—Giving rules for conducting debates, outlines for
debates, questions for discussion, and the best sources for procuring
information on the questions given.

                                SOCIETY.

No. 3. HOW TO FLIRT.—The arts and wiles of flirtation artfully explained
by this little book. Besides the various methods of handkerchief, fan,
glove, parasol, window and hat flirtation, it contains a full list of
the language and sentiment of flowers, which is interesting to
everybody, both old and young. You cannot be happy without one.

No. 4. HOW TO DANCE is the title of a new and handsome little book just
issued by Frank Tousey. It contains full instructions in the art of
dancing, etiquette in the ball-room and at parties, how to dress, and
full directions for calling off in all popular square dances.

No. 5. HOW TO MAKE LOVE.—A complete guide to love, courtship and
marriage, giving sensible advice, rules and etiquette to be observed,
with many curious and interesting things not generally known.

No. 17. HOW TO DRESS.—Containing full instruction in the art of dressing
and appearing well at home and abroad, giving the selections of colors,
material, and how to have them made up.

No. 18. HOW TO BECOME BEAUTIFUL.—One of the brightest and most valuable
little books ever given to the world. Everybody wishes to know how to
become beautiful, both male and female. The secret is simple, and almost
costless. Read this book and be convinced how to become beautiful.

                           BIRDS AND ANIMALS.

No. 7. HOW TO KEEP BIRDS.—Handsomely illustrated and containing full
instructions for the management and training of the canary, mockingbird,
bobolink, blackbird, paroquet, parrot, etc.

No. 39. HOW TO RAISE DOGS. POULTRY, PIGEONS AND RABBITS.—A useful and
instructive book. Handsomely illustrated. By Ira Drofraw.

No. 40. HOW TO MAKE AND SET TRAPS.—Including hints on how to catch
moles, weasels, otter, rats, squirrels and birds. Also how to cure
skins. Copiously illustrated. By J. Harrington Keene.

No. 50. HOW TO STUFF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.—A valuable book, giving
instructions in collecting, preparing, mounting and preserving birds,
animals and insects.

No. 54. HOW TO KEEP AND MANAGE PETS.—Giving complete information as to
the manner and method of raising, keeping, taming, breeding, and
managing all kinds of pets; also giving full instructions for making
cages, etc. Fully explained by twenty-eight illustrations, making it the
most complete book of the kind ever published.

                             MISCELLANEOUS

No. 8. HOW TO BECOME A SCIENTIST.—A useful and instructive book, giving
a complete treatise on chemistry; also experiments in acoustics,
mechanics, mathematics, chemistry, and directions for making fireworks,
colored fires, and gas balloons. This book cannot be equaled.

No. 14. HOW TO MAKE CANDY.—A complete hand-book for making all kinds of
candy, ice-cream, syrups, essences, etc., etc.

No. 19. FRANK TOUSEY’S UNITED STATES DISTANCE TABLES, POCKET COMPANION
AND GUIDE.—Giving the official distances on all the railroads of the
United States and Canada. Also table of distances by water to foreign
ports, half-fares in the principal cities, reports of the census, etc.,
etc., making it one of the most complete and handy books published.

No. 38. HOW TO BECOME YOUR OWN DOCTOR.—A wonderful book, containing
useful and practical information in the treatment of ordinary diseases
and ailments common to every family. Abounding in useful and effective
recipes for general complaints.

No. 55. HOW TO COLLECT STAMPS AND COINS.—Containing valuable information
regarding the collecting and arranging of stamps and coins. Handsomely
illustrated.

No. 58. HOW TO BE A DETECTIVE.—By Old King Brady, the world-known
detective. In which he lays down some valuable and sensible rules for
beginners, and also relates some adventures and experiences of
well-known detectives.

No. 60. HOW TO BECOME A PHOTOGRAPHER.—Containing useful information
regarding the Camera-and how to work it; also how to make Photographic
Magic Lantern Slides and other Transparencies. Handsomely illustrated.
By Captain W. De W. Abney.

No. 62. HOW TO BECOME A WEST POINT MILITARY CADET.—Containing full
explanations how to gain admittance, course of Study, Examinations,
Duties, Staff of Officers, Post-Guard, Police Regulations. Fire
Department, and all a boy should know to be a Cadet. Compiled and
written by Lu Senarens, author of “How to Become a Naval Cadet.”

No. 63. HOW TO BECOME A NAVAL CADET.—Complete instructions of how to
gain admission to the Annapolis Navy Academy. Also containing the course
of instruction, descriptive of grounds and buildings, historical sketch,
and everything a boy should know to become an officer in the United
States Navy. Compiled and written by Lu Senarens, author of “How to
Become a West Point Military Cadet.”

                 PRICE 10 CENTS EACH, OR 3 FOR 25 CENTS.
 Address FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,             24 Union Square, New York.




                      FRANK READE WEEKLY MAGAZINE.

     Containing Stories of Adventures on Land, Sea, and in the Air.

                              BY “NONAME.”

             EACH NUMBER IN A HANDSOMELY ILLUMINATED COVER.

                     A 32-PAGE BOOK FOR FIVE CENTS.

All our readers know Frank Reade, Jr., the greatest inventor of the age,
and his two fun-loving chums, Barney and Pomp. The stories published in
this magazine contain a true account of the wonderful and exciting
adventures of the famous inventor, with his marvellous flying machines,
electrical overland engines, and his extraordinary submarine boats. Each
number is a rare treat. Tell your newsdealer to get you a copy.

  1 Frank Reade, Jr’s White Cruiser of the Clouds; or, The Search for
        the Dog-Faced Men.

  2 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Submarine Boat, the “Explorer”; or, To the
        North Pole Under the Ice.

  3 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Van; or, Hunting Wild Animals in the
        Jungles of India.

  4 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Air Canoe; or, The Search for the
        Valley of Diamonds.

  5 Frank Reade, Jr.’s “Sea Serpent”; or, The Search for Sunken Gold.

  6 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Terror, the “Thunderer”; or, The
        Search for the Tartar’s Captive.

  7 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Air Wonder, the “Kite”; or, A Six Weeks’ Flight
        Over the Andes.

  8 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Deep Sea Diver, the “Tortoise”; or, The Search
        for a Sunken Island.

  9 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Invention, the “Warrior”; or, Fighting
        Apaches in Arizona.

  10 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Air Boat; or, Hunting Wild
        Beasts for a Circus.

  11 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Torpedo Boat; or, At War With the
        Brazilian Rebels.

  12 Fighting the Slave Hunters; or, Frank Reade, Jr., in Central
        Africa.

  13 From Zone to Zone; or, The Wonderful Trip of Frank Reade, Jr.,
        with His Latest Air Ship.

  14 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Cruiser of the Lakes; or, A
        Journey Through Africa by Water.

  15 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Turret; or, Lost in the Land
        of Fire.

  16 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Engine of the Clouds; or, Chased Around
        the World in the Sky.

  17 In the Great Whirlpool; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Strange Adventures
        in a Submarine Boat.

  18 Chased Across the Sahara; or, Frank Reade, Jr., After a Bedouin’s
        Captive.

  19 Six Weeks in the Clouds; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Air-Ship the
        “Thunderbolt.”

  20 Around the World Under Water; or, The Wonderful Cruise of a
        Submarine Boat.

  21 The Mystic Brand: or, Frank Reade. Jr., and His Overland Stage.

  22 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Air Racer; or, Around the Globe in
        Thirty Days.

  23 The Sunken Pirate; or, Frank Reade, Jr., in Search of a Treasure
        at the Bottom of the Sea.

  24 Frank Reade. Jr.’s Magnetic Gun Carriage; or, Working for the U.
        S. Mail.

  25 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Ice Ship; or, Driven Adrift In
        the Frozen Sky.

  26 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Sea Engine; or, Hunting for a Sunken
        Diamond Mine.

  27 The Black Range; or, Frank Reade, Jr., Among the Cowboys with His
        Electric Caravan.

  28 Over the Andes with Frank Reade, Jr., in His New Air-Ship; or,
        Wild Adventures In Peru.

  29 Frank Reade, Jr., Exploring a Submarine Mountain; or, Lost at the
        Bottom of the Sea.

  30 Adrift In Africa; or, Frank Reade, Jr., Among the Ivory Hunters
        with His New Electric Wagon.

  31 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for a Lost Man In His Latest Air
        Wonder.

  32 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for the Sea Serpent; or, Six Thousand
        Miles Under the Sea.

  33 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Prairie Whirlwind; or, The Mystery of the
        Hidden Canyon.

  34 Around the Horizon for Ten Thousand Miles; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s
        Most Wonderful Trip.

  35 Lost in the Atlantic Valley; or, Frank Reade, Jr., and his
        Wonder, the “Dart.”

  36 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Desert Explorer; or, The Underground City of
        the Sahara.

  37 Lost In the Mountains of the Moon; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Great
        Trip with the “Scud.”

  38 Under the Amazon for a Thousand Miles.

  39 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Clipper of the Prairie; or, Fighting the
        Apaches in the Southwest.

  40 The Chase of a Comet; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Aerial Trip with the
        “Flash.”

  41 Across the Frozen Sea; or, Frank Reade Jr.’s Electric Snow
        Cutter.

  42 Frank Reade Jr.’s Electric Buckboard; or, Thrilling Adventures In
        North Australia.

  43 Around the Arctic Circle; or, Frank Reade Jr.’s Famous Flight
        With His Air Ship.

  44 Frank Reade Jr.’s Search for the Silver Whale; or, Under the
        Ocean in the Electric “Dolphin.”

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

  FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.        ....190

  DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

  .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos....................................
  .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos................................
  .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos..............................
  .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos..................................
  .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos..................................
  .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos.........................
  .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos.............................

  Name.......... Street and No. ............ Town.......... State.....




------------------------------------------------------------------------




Transcriber’s note:

 1. Added Table of Contents.

 2. Moved advertising from inside front cover to before inside back
      cover.

 3. Silently corrected typographical errors.

 4. Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANK READE, JR.'S SEARCH FOR THE
SILVER WHALE***


******* This file should be named 55562-0.txt or 55562-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/5/5/6/55562


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

