The Project Gutenberg EBook of Arqtiq, by Anna Adolph

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Arqtiq
       A Study of the Marvels at the North Pole

Author: Anna Adolph

Release Date: March 7, 2018 [EBook #56696]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ARQTIQ ***




Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, MFR, C. H. Williamson, Duke
University, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                                ARQTIQ:

                A Study of the Marvels at the North Pole


                          By MRS. ANNA ADOLPH

                       [Illustration: Decoration]


                        PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR
                                  1899




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             --------------

                           COPYRIGHTED, 1899

                             --------------




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                ARQTIQ.

                                  ---


                      Saying “I will go with thee
                       To yon isles of mystery.”


Always fond of the marvelous, I conceived a strong desire to go to the
North Pole.

To obviate the dangers of the trip I invented a coach, that was also
ship and balloon. Its silken canopy is inflatable to strong wings or
wide sails. Its wheels are wide rimmed, to glide over snow, and paneled
for water paddles. When it is finished and stored I select some friends
to accompany me. My most personal loved ones. A volatile fair-haired
gent—my husband, and a fair-haired little maiden friend, sit on the
front seat. On the back seat are sitting my aged father and myself, our
black eyes snapping with expectation.

Waving my hands to the few gathered to see us off, I say: “This
undertaking is of desire to gain knowledge. Success, surmounting all
obstacles will take us to the summit of the round earth, where, ages
past as ages future will accord us first record.”

Charley turns levers to start, as little Mae’s mamma says: “You will be
the Mascot, Mae Searles. But I do not think you will go very far,”
dubiously.

“You will change your mind, mamma, when I bring you home a little bear,”
makes us laugh.

“I will be glad to get you for my little bear.”

“All the rest of us,” I answered, “will take care of her.”

“No doubt,” she replies, “as far as you go in your odd rig,”
facetiously.

Our wheels turn slowly and silently. Then with a low tinkling of the
strain, “Good Bye, Sweet Heart,” Mae had slipped her music box in one,
wound to that harmony.

We are Californians and take the C. P. railroad for our eastward route,
our wheels being grooved to fit the track. Speeding merrily, we give
vent to our imaginations of coming events.

“Will there really be a pole, Auntie?”

“That is for us to find out, dear. I sometimes think there is a stem
there covered with ice, that holds the earth to an apple planet tree.”

“But the astronomers would have seen the tree,” argues my father.

“They could not look so far. Only as far as the other star apples. May
not the Milky Way be a branch?” I suggest.

We now become aware that a train is approaching on the single track that
is hanging over the grade on the canyon side. We have no choice but to
unfurl our wings and rise in the air, as the engineer wildly blows his
whistle. Brushing the pine tree tops, we cross over the peak and seek
the track on the other side of it, selecting an opening in a thicket for
that purpose.

Finding it occupied by miners digging away, we hallo, when they look
every way but up, as we land in their midst as though dropped from the
sky. Their consternation is depicted in set jaws, as we give military
salute and roll off.

This feat, so skilfully accomplished, denotes an expert hand in our
motorman, who had been practicing faithfully, as a bird to fly, a
swimmer or cyclist. As exhilarant to him as to us, and much lessened our
distance, causes Mae to clap her hands and ask, “Why not fly all the
time?”

“We want to save that force until we have more serious need,” Charley
replies. “I hope that poor boy who fell over the log while eating his
breakfast and ran away, will recover and go back,” makes us all laugh
uproariously, when zipp! whir-r!! over we go and lay on our side, the
wheels still revolving.

The grade just here, level from the ground excavated by the miners,
saved us from a serious mishap. To have rolled to the Canyon River would
have damaged us greatly. As it is we cannot recover the track without
that descent. So we twist our car upright (we are fastened in our
seats), square it to the hill and down we go, losing our breath as we
plump splashing into the water.

Our bonny wheels take paddle stroke and carry us, laughing over, and up
the opposite bank to the track there, in its sinuous course.

“We laughed too quick,” says father. “That friend at whom we laughed
dropped that fork on the rail. I see him behind that boulder.”

We leave the narrow-gauge track at its terminus without stopping, and
have no other special accident in this vicinity.

The sun has chased frost and rose hues the higher snow peaks. Sierra
Nevada (snowy) in its most interesting locality is around. Having come
on the narrow-gauge railroad that connects the two largest and oldest of
the mining cities with the broad-gauge of the Central Pacific, we are
rounding out on the latter over the famous Cape Horn. Spring is in her
first freshness. We sniff its fragrance, as we shall continue to do,
following its pioneer march until our arrival at our destination to
enjoy our summer at the pole, where it is most enjoyable and the only
tolerable season. From apparently bare ground are flying the cyclamen
banners of the johnny-jump-up. The blue sage (sun dial) gives a lake of
national colors, interspersed with the scarlet of the gorgeous fireweed,
whose leaves and blossoms glow alike. Mae gleefully reaches to a dogwood
lily (artist’s favorite), then snatches a tuft of pink primrose that
covers a bank and decorates its edge, while I cook the breakfast upon
our steam heater. It is so late I make it serve for dinner also. Putting
omelette and ripe strawberries beside the spinach and wild duck. As I
finish Mae emits a long whistle, as a red-breasted linnet—the
first—flies close to us to get our sweet food company, then sings, to
earn it and call its family.

The chapparal is faintly green. But the manzanita—sung of poets, or
ought to be—in its immaculate green leaves adorning the winter, with red
stems of eternal beauty, is covered with pink waxen sprays, as fragrant,
as it is like, the lily of the valley. A momentary regret comes to leave
in California this worshipped shrub. Its blossoms develop to little
green-apple fruit, the size of peas, of edible flavor. Manzanita is the
Indian name for little apple.

Charley appreciates my feelings as he calls out, “Take a last look,”
when father, to turn the tide, passes the muffins. Our glance down the
mountain side falls upon a ranch, tiny in the depths; a maid of midget
size throws invisible corn to mice-size chickens that flock around;
Charley hurls deftly a cracker toward them that falls far short upon the
mountain side. My spirits rise. To be here sings a grateful pæan in my
breast. To write it is not half the story.

I remember lovingly the sister cities left behind. Mining born and
golden reared, with their Californian continual lawns, social halls and
grand hotels for the floating population, this last much improved by the
efforts of the Salvation Army, who have charmed the crowd to good
behavior as they enjoy appreciatively their sweet-voiced pleadings.

I look out at the country, dotted with quartz-mill chimneys, with their
heavy roar, as the heavy stamp crushes the granite to free the gold
imprisoned in their bastille. To all we bid good-bye, as we turn Cape
Horn, and though still among the clouds, we see and hear the rushing
river below. As all streams here are given to chatty hilarity, I think
once more of the one where oft I have walked on trailed path.

I muse on until in time we salute the desert plain, with its sage brush
and dog cities. Stations are not hailed by us (as in time a small crowd
awaits us). Silently we appear; like a shadow disappear.

Our seats are so constructed that we can stand and exercise, rock or lie
down at ease. Partaking our meals without alighting, we have no occasion
to lose time. Our casing open, banners flying. I have brought handwork
and books. Father is carving on some queer rotary wheel that gives three
separate motions. Charley and Mae, on the seat in front, amuse each
other and call us to the special sights.

Chicago! We leisurely arrive and traverse silently, street after street,
sadly impressed that the continuous magnificence in equality of
buildings, found nowhere else, was dearly bought.

Citizens are crowding our path; obstructing our progress by their
progressive ardor, for some one has telegraphed them of our intended
exploration; to our unexpected aspirations, unheeding our desires, they
hurrah lustily for our success.

Thanking them, we start on, grateful in our hearts for their sympathy.
We do not stop in any other city, even passing over the suspension
bridge quite silently, though lost in ecstasy at its cataract view.

Evading detention in New York, we whirl over the Brooklyn Bridge without
minding the many curious gazers.

Arriving at Coney Island beach, though a storm is coming on, we light
our interior and in the dusk are about to drop into the sea. A shout
goes up outside and strong hands hold us. Near us is a carriage whose
horses we had frightened. In it is an aged man of martial bearing, who
recognizes my father.

“Oh, it is _you_, is it, meandering at night like a firebug. Turn around
now and go home with me,” he said, cordially.

“Haven’t time; we are bound to the North Pole.” Hurrying up so quickly,
we break away and sink beneath the toppling waves.

Pelted and tossed all night we welcome daylight; but flash, crack, roar,
we draw ourselves closer together, and sink in the depths beneath the
turmoil, to find other disturbance. A massed army of swordfish hold
battle-front with glowing eyes to an opposing array of giant whales, who
ponderously coming, lash the sea into a vortex.

The two columns colliding, the first leap in white streaks, curl, and
land on the latter’s backs, dip and dye their swords. The whales shake
them off and beat them to death in myriads, to be followed by myriads
more, until the sea is red, when suddenly the cavalry swords fly,
disappearing in the distance.

The victorious artillery, the whales, blow themselves, weariedly. We go
closer to them—too close—as they are a warrior band. A big general opens
his mouth towards us, disconcerting to our stomachs; we beat a hasty
retreat to a safe distance, where we watch the camp followers, a
jumbling mass of veritable sea monsters.

When all is quiet we rise to the surface, to find it quiet there, too.
The sun shining brightly on an iceberg, whose edge, sending up a few
whale spouts, resolves it into a fountainous white island.

I muse aloud! “Does the under war cause the upper war, or _vice versa_?
What is war? Ocean’s elements and life as restless as man. Plant-life
and rocks, also, struggle and upheave. Why is war? Resulting only to
change. God’s evolution but a program of variety.” I study it thus, in
inspiration, hoping it leads to fore-destined improvement.

I am hearing the word Arbitration. “Oh, yes, papa; when arbitration
stops men’s wars, will the elements follow, and what then?”

                       [Illustration: Decoration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




           “Those starry choirs that watch around the pole.”
                              —_Casimir_.


The first iceberg is but the precursor of many that block our way. Then
block the land to perpetual imprisonment. Giving us first taste of this
specialty of our trip. As we stop a few days in the last place of
civilization.

We find good entertainment with pleasant people who are willing to aid
us in our endeavor for knowledge, yet solemnly warn us not to dare the
dangers ahead. They stock us with dried meat; supply us with double
sealskin outfits; in fact, sealskins line our sleigh to aid in keeping
us warm. They end by giving us their uttermost paths.

Had our home friends in California been more solicitous, and amused
themselves less at our expense, at this juncture we would have returned
to them, for our hearts are dropping like lead. But our pride aids us,
as our eyes bravely scan the pole star ahead.

“Mae, do you want to go home?” as I see her wipe the tears out of her
big blue eyes.

“Not I; this is the best part of it. Only the frosty air makes me cry.”

“Do you not want to see your mamma?”

“Yes, but I will have so much more to tell her,” waking to enthusiasm
and paramount faith.

Polished ice-glass in hand I firmly wave adieu.

In the last few days of our stay have been finished preparations for
what, to the nation, is a centennial celebration. A barbecue is held on
an ice glittering plaza. Emerald ice tables, chamois-clothed, hold a
wondrous feast. Whole reindeer rigs, the sledge a pastry; great
Christmas trees are confections. This now engages the crowds.

We rub our hands together, and, shall I say it, our noses, in local
fashion of “good bye,” as our prow points north.

We have carefully selected this season of the year, with intent to
follow the continual dawn light—night and day—of this region, which yet
faint, is hardly sufficient to keep us moving swiftly, when, lo, near us
darts up a bright glare, followed by others, around and ahead, as far as
we can see, illumining the air. They are bonfires of the celebration.
Heaps of cones, added to yearly, surround a ring of pine trees, the
center a tall, hollow trunk as chimney. The gorgeous flickering of
glory, I feel to believe, is miles in extent.

Climbing miles up the heavy atmosphere, it is advanced to iceberg peaks,
beyond and below the horizon. Visited thus only for ages, do they
inclose the pole? Are they the goal we seek? Springing up the crystal
shafts in warmth of welcome are reflected back again and beckon us on.

Our minds in sublime mood, to silence, are disturbed, as father suddenly
jerks up his head. “It is the red fire of the north.” The rare mystery
the superstitious ancients believed to be a sign of war is now solved,
and the simple in fact is most beautiful of sight.

Our path is strangely smooth, as though some hitherto sea had congealed
and left a frozen plain, which gives us grateful relief until our
direction ceases and the last marked path stops, and an icy lobe rears
high before us.

Clamp-spurring our wheels we climb its height, to find a table
formation, level graded, an unmistakable sign of ice-locked land, as if
an island included in the cold grasp that holds the sea. We do not go
far, when a pile of ice rocks hem in a space. We proceed to inspect.
Hastily curving by, we are suddenly brushed by a bush, and berries
rattle lusciously on our window-pane. Flinging it open a balmy air
salutes us, forcing us out upon a bright-hued snow-flower carpet.

“What, berries in spring! in Arctic forcing-houses! no cold night to
delay matters!” as Charley is about to cram his mouth. But I, on closely
examining, fail to identify them, and jot in my book a new name,
“Onigogies.” He looks over to read. “Gogies, gogies, gorge us, please.”

“Tu whu a whu,” wavers our brains and quivers our eyes, as we see a
great white owl perched on our banner, blinking. I see near by an apple
vine. I reach out and take a most beautiful red specimen, before I am
aware that it is already in the mouth of a serpent, coiled around the
twig. Unconsciously an Eve, as unconscious, also, is the reptile, who
looks at me with kind, appreciative eyes. But I drop the apple and get
into the sleigh, quite weak, unable to prevent Mae from taking and
eating another, giving one to father. Seeing me in, Charley gets ready
to enter, by loading the bottom. The owl has gone, but approaching is a
gorgeous stork of orange plumage. Of camel size, it coolly steps over
us, as the rest quickly step in and we move forward.

Thinking this may be a lost Eden, I look curiously to discover the life
tree, to see Mae and father, who have turned deathly pale, reel in their
seats. Stopping quickly, we put snow on their heads and bind it by
leaves of a high shrub we are under. Shuddering, they grasp the leaves
in their teeth and swallow the juice as their breath revives. A red glow
on their cheeks. Was it the leaves of healing? Much trampled beneath had
given us roadway. As expected, we enter a herd of foxes, who are barking
in play and basking in the unusual light; as all else, unnoticing us, we
glide along quite securely.

Charley has studied the lesson of the apple, as he audaciously reaches
down and takes one, and calmly eats it in conjunction with the leaves,
to my perturbed attention.

We reach the edge of the island and go down to the sea plain again,
which is here more rough in icy waves, making the travel quite
difficult. The waves grew larger until mountains high, then lessen and
gradually disappear, having unfolded to us a frozen storm at sea.

The surface is smoother and smoother; so that we start up swiftly. A
gale scurries toward us from behind. As it strikes us Charley opens
valves and we all rise in our seats, unable to contain our ardor, as
miles are covered in our exceeding speed, which continues as the moments
and hours pass, father’s speed-measure marking a mile a second. Hundreds
of miles are covered and the ice is still smooth. Knowing we are not so
far away from the peaks that point the pole, we hourly anticipate a view
as of masts arising at sea, but instead, we are shocked to see the
flame-hued sky settle densely in a fog. So long our friend, its warmth
had melted the congealed air and now clouds our nautical bearings. Our
compass is our sole northly guide. But what—what is the matter with it
that it hangs its head and stops? We are lost!

In frenzy, now, the hours go by as we circle blindly, when a luminant
point attracts us far away. Is it the serried guide shaft? It is.

Famished and cold—our steam spent and wheels broken—we make but slow
speed toward the flickering gleam. Attaining it, we have only left us
our wings, by which we rise up the cliff side of the topping pinnacle—to
see others, massed in braided and arcaded confusion before us.
Weakening, while above their splintering and crashing avalanches, we
drop on the side of the sheerest bayonet of all, as hundreds of hues are
changing and ranging in glistening sea waves in a deep, long valley
below us. Not long, but a round level plain, girdled by this ring of
bergs that hem it in.

Our pained eyes watch father stolidly take our local bearings, then with
him shout in audible voice: “The North Pole!”

                       [Illustration: Decoration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         “Lead, kindly, light!
                           Lead thou me on.”


The north star in the heavens, shining faintly through the half-clear
atmosphere, has decided us on our locality at the dearly attained goal,
costing us friends, and country, and possibly our lives.

The sound of our voices falls dead around and echoes into the deep
valley below. No sign of the beautiful city we had fancifully pictured.
Thankful to die in the light, with the stars to take our last breath, is
only left us.

Mae complainingly whimpers: “There isn’t a pole at all!”

“Nor open sea,” growls Charley, hoarsely.

“The width of the valley determines the flattening of the earth,
though,” sighs father.

Fall dead around, did I say? our voice—I level the glass down the berg
side beneath me. I see at the sound a snowy mass turn about, with a
human face uplifted toward me.

So great the size and wondrous fair the countenance I believed myself
deceived, as it quickly turns back. But I see two hands clasp together
in signal. Then low organ notes swell from below, which, when loudest
grown, suddenly stop.

When the sun in hailing gleam lights a tall spire, supporting a ring of
gold points arising from the valley center, which I now trace for the
first time. Led to examine the valley around it, I see shapes of domes
and wall—signs of a buried city. What are they doing? Whirling and
shaking? Presto! the snow canvas rolls off, unveiling a full-fledged and
much-alive city to my amazed mind. From last extreme of despair my hopes
suddenly arise to so sudden height! I fall forward and cover my eyes, to
keep my brain intact. The city at last. City of Zion! Sung of poets and
portrayed of artists inspired of its contour and elysian beauty. Hope
raises a hosanna in my breast that is chorused around me, where I now
give my attention.

The human presence below, with feather-plume robes, so like snow,
swaying back, is hastening up in giant strides, anxious expectation on
his face. As he reaches the ledge on which we lodge the choral voices
around disclose a throng of people similar to him lining all the
mountain sides. Their pæan of praise to their city’s prowess ended, with
shouts and conversation they prepare to descend. Nearly running over us,
babes to them in size, they at last spy us, as the first kneels in
adoration, his hands over us in protection and token of possession.

With tender emotion he essays to quiet our alarm, managing at last to
emit words that sounded like “Welcome, Unions!” For a moment I wonder if
other Americans are here lost before us. Then we bow low in reply.
Assured of our trust in him he takes charge and lifts us from our ruined
vehicle to another, standing near, which is no less than a great white
albatross, one of many now being mounted by the throng. Robes are drawn
about us, after we are presented to a lady, also in his charge, who,
with less success, attempts the words he first used. Feeling quite among
friends, as he lifts a feather-tufted guiding wand resting on the bird’s
head, I turn to the lady by my side, whose first glance, as though in
bitterness, before our arrival, has changed to liveliest sociability in
gestures, nods and smiles upon Mae, who is cuddled in her lap.

With womanly curiosity I essay to learn the city’s name. Understanding
my desire she essayed to reply, in cordial, harmonious tones, “Arc.”
Farther inquiry in my eyes, I get the farther delineation, “It circles
Aurora,” meaning, no doubt, the electric centre. Content with this, I
scan the dimensions growing, as we approach, and ride high above, the
snowy pinions of the bird throng clouding the air.

Courts are numerous, covered with great glass domes and domes rolled
back. As we turn down to one of these I hear father whisper to our host,
“How do you know English?”

With effort he kindly gives the following: “My father, when younger,
explored a great deal upon the iceberg sea around. Venturing too far one
day, he became lost in an island garden, to find camped there a people
like you, who fed and cared for him.” How simple; his kindness is in
gratitude.

“But where are the people?” father farther inquired.

“I do not know. He became lost again from them to find his own city.”

Alighting, we are led through conservatory halls to an apartment-like
hall. Of great magnificence, it is yet quite homelike, with great
cushions strewn about that are seats for the great people but beds in
size for us. I fall on one and am soon fast asleep. Awaking partially, a
melody is soothing my senses. Sitting up, I see a fountain whence issues
the sounds. In it I bathe face and hands, when the water, acting
medicinal, I feel revived and buoyant, also quite hungry. Father and
Charley are talking, the latter ending with “It suits me.”

Mae, still asleep, talks spasmodically. “Oh, auntie! Oh, mamma!” At the
last a pain enters my heart, never more to leave. Opening her eyes, she
slowly takes in the situation. Seeing the pain in my face, she throws
her arms about my neck and says, gently, “No matter, auntie; it is a
sweet place here, anyway.”

The rest now giving way to hunger, as our hosts duly regard us with
infantile solicitude, I put my hand in my mouth, as in the latter’s
fashion. Immediately wheels of itself into the room a table laden with
food. Staring at its wizard-like action, we are seated to it. No dish,
knife or fork, or board. Probably not in the land. An enameled lily
leaf. The food, light and solid, piled in little fruit cups. One is put
in each our mouths, cup and all. I taste and find it palatable. Our
appetites satisfied, out wheels the table, making Mae smile and become
merry. Seeing us still high perched, our jolly friends rally around us,
pull our toes and pinch our cheeks, until I wish I had refrained in
initiating this program. Soon in comes a hassock and wheeling to us,
gives us an opportunity to alight. Mae down last, remains seated on it,
when it starts around the room with her, pirouetting in mazy figures,
giving its occupant mazy face.

When stopped, the host whistles, to bring from a corner two great white
mice, kitten size. As he twirls his fingers, they fall to the floor, a
green sward; folding their four pink paws to their breasts, they become
round balls, thus roll about, greatly to our amusement.

This has suggested to the lady, who proposes to “go out in town to an
entertainment that is funny, oh, so funny.”

The host, in gleesome impulse, elects to take me. Raising me on his
hand, he asks my name. Charley, quite diverted, gives it, “Anna.”

“Ah, you are angel, Anna!” when Charley reads the puzzle, remarking, “He
means ‘English.’” Then he kisses me squarely in the mouth, to my
immediate struggle to get down, which I succeed in doing while he is
taking Charley in his other hand, who now, unlike other husbands,
proceeds to lecture me. “Do not be odd; you see it is all right. It is
evening hour in America (swallowing); we will enjoy this, our first
evening here.”

Mae, who has taken to the hand I have left, reaches and pinches him; at
which I laugh and spring into a pocket in front of the lady, upon whose
shoulder sits my father, his hand holding her feather cap. So utterly
without matronly dignity am I, I am glad for once that home friends
cannot see my position.

Getting into the center of the street, she stops, (I nearly fall) and
sits upon a chair, raised from the road-bed by the man, who takes
another. The object is plain, when we move swiftly along as on a track.

Mae asks ingenuously her bearer’s name; he gives it in Arc language,
what sounds to us like “Show Off,” which we shall now call him. Then
looking to my bearer he says: “She is Aunt Robet, a dear old maid, who
is always taking care of us, papa and I, when mother is away.” He goes
over and squeezes her shoulders. As father innocently sticks a pin into
his hand, he looks so queerly at the hurt, it is plain he does not know
the cause, or never felt the like before. In our childish role we still
question: “Where is your papa?” “Oh, he is always in his house (room).
You can live with him,” looking at my father. Seeing us unwilling at
such an arrangement, his aunt explains: “He is a student, a very great
savant, who is always busy in his office or study.” This alters the
matter; father’s eyes glisten with expectation.

Arrived at the hall I see a great space in the floor, that is grooved in
pattern. I look to see if a cable line is drawing through, when I am
deposited on a chair directly above. The rest have chairs near by. Mae
retaining her place in Show Off’s lap. The other chairs in the room are
being rapidly filled. I cannot determine the entertainment so wait
developments. Not long. The word is given, the chairs start off, getting
a swift gait. I suddenly remember Mae’s hassock, but she is watching
Charley, who takes a firm hold, as the important look, assumed at our
departure, goes slowly off his face, ejaculating but once “Shake.” I
think, too, shake, for quiver, jerk, jump, all in rotation; music
playing is the order. Enjoying our mutual discomfiture, our chairs
opposite, we are treated at the last to a grand bounce, that sends us
into each other’s arms, so close. Had not Mae been held firm, she would
have fallen, in her convulsion of mirth.

We lose no time in getting down, and close to our bearers. Aunt Robet,
placid in demeanor, I calculate how to get even with her. Though she had
declared it funny, I look at her viciously, when she condescends to
graciously explain: “This is our outing celebration; the city shakes off
its veil to greet the sun; shaking is, therefore, the order of the day.”
Hence this little exercise, I was happy to have amused her.

We ride now leisurely home, viewing the heavy buildings of great blocks
of ice, shining in the sunlight. Why they do not melt I cannot tell.
Afterwards I learn they are covered with an enamel that preserves them.
The picturing on their sides is done by fracturing; the graceful
cornices and other trimmings are in imitation of snowflake crystals,
relieving to beauty their solidity. Quite exhausted on our return, we
are given apartments to ourselves, in which we prepare to rest.

Convinced that false positions are unfortunate, I resolve to adopt a
dignified bearing, suitable to my maturity, my short experience in
babyhood, however remunerative, proving quite objectionable in excess of
bestowment.

Hearing father sigh, as he watches the dawn that beckons to arise
instead of sleep, I essay to comfort him. “Dear father, has not God sent
us here to convert them?” “Too intelligent,” he mutters; “they will
convert us.” Science is his religion.

                       [Illustration: Decoration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                        “Know’st thou the house?
                       On columns rest its pile;
                         Its halls are gleaming
                        And its chambers smile.”
                               —_Goethe_.


Waking early, my prayer goes up to God, with my whole consciousness
borne intact. So when we miss a link in our self-calculated program of
events, we look to Him, the holder of the links of us—his marionettes
below.

Charley rushes in with a bundle. I speak: “Are you up, dear, and not
sorry that we came?” “Haven’t time. Get up and see your new dress.” I
sit up. “Invisible garments,” he explains. I hurry to him to find only
the usual feathered robes, that in tint and style give all an appearance
of the feathered tribe. Tufted cap and sweeping train; wing sleeves,
with which, could we fly, we would be the angels we are called.

“But where is the invisible?” I inquire.

“Dressed like everybody else, not visible, because not conspicuous,”
settles that problem.

I take the hint and hastily get into the suit assigned me, but not as
quick as he, for he is dressed, and out, and down the hall, while I
admire myself in the glittering ice-mirror walls, vanity for a moment
overcoming homesickness to forget that such an unhuman-like attire,
though beautiful in heaven’s songsters, is more beautiful, even, in a
civilized American.

In bounds Saucy—that is what we nickname Mae. “Where is my dress?”

“Here.” She is soon in it, her flowing hair making her a canary. Bowing
to me in mockery, she says:

“We belong here now. Where is Charley,” looking around.

“Gone out,” I reply.

“I am going to catch him.”

“So am I.”

She calls him Charley, because I do, and that he is not her uncle; nor
am I her aunt, which she uses in lieu of Anna. Running out so hastily we
run smack into the arms of Show Off, which we immediately see is not
him, but probably his father, from the likeness, who grasps us in each
hand, holding us out for inspection, saying, “I have caught two little
birds that have flown to me.” (Like pigeons, I wish we could fly home
again.) “We have no cage here, only freedom; so now I let you go,”
suiting the action to the word. Cordial as sedate, I watch him as he
walks down the hall and disappears. In trying to find Charley, we find
ourselves in the city street.

“Mae, dear, to-day is Sunday; let us find a church,” as we inspect the
various houses. We select a large domed enclosure as a temple to God.
Stepping to its crystal doors it opens itself to us. Within is a rest
scene. Standing or sitting, all look serene, as sacred dreamy notes of
melody fill the air, flower perfumed. A soothing sense of peace takes
possession of us. Instead of high altar, Hebraic, or idol, or Hindoo
custom, a lady and gentlemen are passing among the people, speaking kind
admonitions, solemn adoration, or cheering responses. I reflect; this
may be their manner of service.

The lady passing us, (who I see is our hostess) chucks us under the chin
playfully, saying, “Sweets, have you come to court?”

“Court? I thought it was a church,” I explain.

“What is a church?” she asks.

“Where we pray to God.”

“Oh, we should do that everywhere. The earth is His court. This is only
an Arc court,” as she passes on. I still think it a church.

“Auntie, some are dancing; do you see?” I did. She tried the step in
childish glee.

Is it a church dance? A worship mode suitable to the Arctic locality.
How the Unitarians and Catholics would enjoy it. But I—my M. E. founder,
Asbury, was lame, so could not dance, therefore we preach it down.
Saucy, as Episcopal, sees no harm.

But now she pulls me out and waltzes me around. (I had learned the art
before I joined the M. E.’s.) The glow of circulation raises my spirit
to a desire to shout. I do so in M. E. denominational style, solacing my
conscience thus far. Soon it pricks again.

When tired and resting I study out the scripture of this new service.
Would Jesus (if here) adapt a sermon to its beneficial principles, as He
had done to baptism (bath) of the crowds drawn to the river side for
that purpose, obligatory in their sweltering climate? Are not all church
rites illustrative of adaptations of the one worship—Spirit and Truth?

These thoughts adding so much of scriptural interpretation of new modes,
adding, therefore, new program to my former stereotyped observances, I
become at first slightly confused, but reserve my settled decision,
until I have farther and more deeply weighed the subject. Until then, I
wonder.

“What is best for us to do in such a church as this?”

I turn as I speak aloud, to see Charley by my side, who has overheard
all, and coaches me. “Do? Make the earth a church, as do these people.”
The noon hour arrived. Refreshments of light and solid food are passed
to all.

Not having got over the impression of its being a church, Mae, who has
not heard the explanation, turns and says:

“Auntie, it is a sacrament! The little gum paste cups hold drink. I do
not think it will harm me.”

A sacrament! Would that all the churches would give each Sunday as
substantial a one to Jesus’ sheep and lambs, which are the poor, who go
poorly fed all the week.

Seeing how strangely people sit down, by some contrivance or stiffness
in their back drapery, I try my own, and being successful, am become
quite at ease, as I eat, prayerfully, until satisfied. Then looking
around at the beaming, social faces, I suddenly take a distrust and
grasp Mae’s hand: “Child, this is a saloon!” in great trepidation.

“No, auntie,” she replies firmly. “No one is drunk or disorderly. It may
be a hotel.”

Show Off pulls my sleeve. I turn to him in benignant, grave demeanor,
causing him to step back in wonder and gracious deference.

“We are Americans, I want you to know. Have you a President?”

He looks wistfully at us, to brighten soon and ask: “Do you mean your
God? My mother is goddess this year. Aunt Robet takes her place when she
is away visiting.”

I study out the whole problem. This wayside sitting-room is a
courthouse, a saloon—the latter purified—and a church in one. I am quite
converted and wish ours at home would become the same, but Charley, who
is still by my side, impatiently waiting to get my full attention,
remarks, jokingly: “Little folks should keep out of the parlors!”

“Parlor? How do you know this is the parlor? I am sure I walked some
distance to get here,” I reply evasively.

“But this palace occupies some distance; you will have to look farther
for a church, if there is one at all. Wait until you are better
acquainted, but to-night we will attend the masque,” meditatively.

“Masque? What can you imagine to be that home dissipation in this cold
and pure, and pure as cold city; certainly less advanced, I hope, less
perverted section of the earth. But that it is Sunday I would accompany
you to investigate for missionary purposes,” I reply devoutly.

“Well, it will last a week; there is no hurry,” as he leaves me free to
muse. So utterly definite in dissimilarity are all things here—arts,
amusements, devotions, etc. I do not expect to encounter social dangers
in similar guise, but must guard as conscientiously from evil under new
guise. Show Off, our attending friend, does make so remarkable blunders
in his attempt to apply our cultured phrases, I quite despair to get out
of him by question what I wish to know. I reflect deeply, what can their
church be? Can it be in happy unison, as is this human social church—to
wit, parlor?

Presently I recollect that here is but one city, one people. Allowing
one church to be feasible, what about different races, who have
different forms of devotion that to them take the place of religion or
its comparative manifestation, though religion itself is solely an act
of the heart.

I imagine present before me this heterogeneous crowd. A Catholic crosses
himself, a Shaker shakes, a dervish howls; Buddhists, Mahometans, and
Confucians appear. Closing my eyes I wonder, could they not, one and
all, do their several forms in the same building? The same “free for
all” church in the same “free for all” country. Trading and walking
together with mutual respect, why not worship also?

I look around and see Charley coming back. He stops short at my
expression. “What are you now conjuring up?” he asks. I told, “a church,
where all kinds of people worship in one building.”

“Very good; when we go back home we will get one up; call it a church
fair, or carnival of churches. Each and all sects to have a booth of
their own. The Hindoos would put up an ox as a symbol. The
Mahometans—what? a goat. The Jews a sheep. The Christians a lamb. The
Chinese a roast pig. Egyptians a cat. Other pagans, somewhere—a snake.
Taken altogether, an animal fair, and as all have good points, even a
snake, Americans would accept all, and could, by protecting each, make
them a happy family. As a cat and dog of one family live in peace under
one roof, and the church symbolic animals in one farmyard, so could the
principals they symbolize aid in its several good, in one church
building.”

I look prayerfully to him and say, regretfully, “But you don’t believe
Jesus is coming back.”

“Yes, I do,” he replies. “_Then_ is He coming. For this is He waiting.
Peace on earth, among the churches. Upon the cross His arms were spread.
To reach around the earth, to join all churches in peace, which is
brotherhood; children of God—Father.”

“What would the Jew say to that?”

“They started it before Jesus. The Jewish High Priest Hillel composed
the prayer, ‘Our Father.’”

“Yes; but he meant it only for the Jews.”

“Well! he can still be a Jew, in the new world church,” and walked
briskly around.

I muse. Where would be my father’s place, as he is an infidel, in this
many-sected or membered church. Would Jesus enfold him as a neighbor of
kind heart? I think so. Entirely rejoicing in this selection of God’s
following, I charmingly ask Show Off, who now appears, “How long do
these churches hold open?”

“Always, with Gods as relief.”

“You mean ministers—but does nobody work?”

“Yes; at the schools until noon.”

What! half of time for God, instead of seventh? Can the millennium have
come here? Has, most likely, no one told them of the Sabbath? One day of
seven? Well, we can keep both—certainly our Sabbath, and explain to
these people why we do.

“One question more. Have you jails in this city? What do you do to
people vicious in hot anger!”

He turns partly to me to see what I am asking; then, understanding me,
he answers gravely: “Freeze them.”

Aunt Robet, now off duty, takes charge of us, conducting us to her
sitting-room.

But two days pass, in which we endeavor to learn the Arc language, as
none except the three already mentioned can converse with us, when
Charley brings forth the masque.

“Oh, yes; but it cannot be a ball nor a domino party. I am curious at
your idea. If it is beneficial and delightful as what I have already
seen, I will be pleased to participate,” I reply, cautiously to my
gentle mate, who, devoted to social assembly, and believing ennobling
dancing as consistent as ennobling singing, he has no patience with my
doubts.

“What am I to do?” I ask in prayer. Silent a gentle whisper breathes in
answer, “It is one of the ten talents! beware of letting it rust!” One
of talents, loaned us of God, and not a sin of the world? Or are the
sins of the world perverted use of honorable talents, to be redeemed by
us by honorable use? its omission, of condemnation.

Can I burnish and enlarge my consecration to Thee, oh God, in gay
circle? Dost Thou truly love, also, happy faces? At the hall we don our
costumes and are shown into a green bower, so banked with trees, shrubs,
and plants there seems no space for guests. These, I soon discover,
encostume everywhere about; I discover, also, much relieved, that the
object is educational, only—to put us in touch with “the least of these”
that God noteth.

A huge butterfly lights in front of me, greeting me cordially. So like a
host I feel quite at home as a concourse of bugs, bees, and insects
arise around, with waving wings, until I think I never saw before so
moving a sight. A bee hummed in my ear—a sound like Charley; a mosquito
sung in glee—a note like Saucy; a wasp with saucy eyes—Show Off. Moths
in the windows, locusts in shady nooks, and a cricket adds its refrain.
Sitting upon a scarlet ottoman, it moves off on its four feet—a live
cochineal. Standing under an umbrella tree I was “darned” by a “needle”
to a branch; a hopper hopped to a sheaf of wheat; lady-bugs minced;
graybeards stalked around; a black-coated beetle handed me (as a weevil)
a rose conserve, saying: “A ‘flour’ for you.” I accepted it, making room
for him by my side. But soon the hostess, bringing to me a “bigbug,” who
asked a promenade. Replying to him “May bee,” the beetle gets up and
snaps spitefully away.

I could see no harm, as the hours passed swiftly, teaching us a social
sympathy, with this (insect) realm of the Creator, who now, as I apply
my mind (talent?) to them, have always, as us, displayed love to their
kind, dislike of pain, and gratefulness to benefactors. The younger
danced in buoyant evidence of youthful being, the elder in touch with
their delight. I saw no harm, and wished that all dancing in America
could be so eminently cultivating in bodily exercise and polite
demeanor.

The rooms are not close. We did not stay late to become weary.

Returning, I discover I have acquired a home interest. I see an enclosed
balcony greenhouse, that line the fronts of the buildings, filled with
ferns and foliage, new to me, that the sun is marvelously unfolding.
They seem to grow up from the ground that must be far beneath the snow,
and clinging to the ice-block wall, do not wither, for an enamel surface
on the walls prevents. I then perceive why the late deep snow has spared
them, snow that has been let below in covered trenches. Charley is going
to pompously interview me.

“You are not so dreadfully horrified, I see. There are, you see,
different grades of parties. At this you were intellectually amused and
society edified. I wonder this people do not drink. I must teach them
the thickening of wine blood,” slightly wavering.

“Thickening of wine-tongue and brain; how did any human being ever adopt
it? I earnestly believe it was water and not wine that Jesus
recommended. (That has been mistakenly translated.) That being plain
God’s design.” I speak prophetically.

“Dear,” he says, “you are right; I will let the people here be
temperate; thus, I believe, more enjoyable.” Then coming close to me he
says: “I was at the party to protect you in safety of ease, you know, so
give me that due for your unrestrained mirth.”

He is so autocratic in his manly assertions I become slightly overawed,
when Show Off, who has had no lesson of him to regard his dignity, comes
up and snaps his ear playfully. The fire darts from his eye, but I
quickly make peace, using his own words: “You see, it is all right; do
not be odd.”

Thus quickly, everywhere, wrath arises innocently, to burn often in high
flame—to indite some deed of evil intent.

Seeing Charley still cross, I converse with Show Off—ask him where my
father is, that I have missed these three days. “Has he found your
father’s room? and is he quite happy?”

“Quite. You will never get him again,” meaning that I am substituted.

This talk, though rather un-English in phrase, is so intentionally
jolly, I become quite familiar, so ask: “Dear Show Off, why did the
sweet Aunt Robet never get married?”

“She is going to be, when her lover comes down out of the sky.”

This mysterious news sets Charley off into a roar of laughter, so I
proceed: “What does he do in the sky? ride about on a star?”

“Yes; and fishes below with a line for pastime.”

I look warily each side of me. “When is he coming down?”

“When the signs are right. We expected him at the Outing; since then we
are unhappy.”

In this lovable manner does he couple himself with his relative’s heart,
who now approaches, and his snap is repeated upon her glowing cheek. But
she, as Charley, gets cross, and he comes back to me. I suddenly miss
Saucy, to see her flaxen hair dangling out of his sleeve, and know that
it is she, in childish fashion, who had done the snapping to our
disconcertment.

Laughing at the innocent cause of war I turn aside to enter the court,
which we are passing. Saucy seeing, drops out of her nest and hugs close
to my side; the rest proceed in peace.

“Ain’t it nice, Auntie, to have a church to step into all the week. You
feel so safe to stop in such a place. No one expects us to buy
something, or read something, or talk something. I wonder if they take
up a collection. If not, the tax supports it.”

“I do not believe they know what money is, though certainly they do its
equivalent—work. We must find the shops and select some work ourselves.”

Then, as Saucy mutters to herself, “What a queer people; no fire, no
dishes, no money, no Sunday, no schools,” I look around at the
delightfully intelligent, as delightfully happy countenances; though the
majority are lying comfortably back in their drapery supports and fast
asleep. This seems to be the rest hour, and I, as Saucy lays her head in
my lap, also to go to dreamland. In vision a mighty angel descends from
God, down through the open dome and takes us by our wing tips, to carry
us off. Hoping it is to America, I keep my eyes closed in expectation,
until an unusual jar involuntarily opens them, showing the angel to be
Show Off, who has deposited us safely at home on a cushion by the side
of Robet.

Half uncertain, as half awake, I hum to myself the tune of “Home, Sweet
Home,” when Robet gets down by me and swelling her throat, warbles
forth, like a bird of paradise, an entrancing melody, soothing me again
to slumbers.

I awake in high fever; at least so I am told, weeks after, when I sit
raised on a cushion and am able to talk. “Yes, Auntie,” says Mae, “when
you were in delirium you talked such strange talk. You raised up once
and asked us ‘What is in heaven?’ I humored you and said, ‘Golden
streets,’ but you shook your head wildly and waved your hand, saying,
‘No, no; golden ice, the sun shines all night to make it.”

While all regard me, lovingly, a golden point of light enters the room,
_dropping at my feet_, causing consternation in the rest. Show Off
hurries out and brings a tablet; reading it they point excitedly to me;
the sunburst growing, they gaze in stupor.

Not until it lessens and departs do they regain composure, when I ask,
“What is it?” Robet answering, “A prophecy. This sign that has never
been just this way before, heralds a new era in Arc; a new people, a new
land. The latter a necessity, as Arc is just evenly full.”

My overbalanced visionary tendency becomes imbued with a new power. I
rise in the air, spiritually, out of the open dome. Ascend to the
high-poised golden points, still glowing, (my soul having left material
enclosure) in the center, and look down a cavity miles wide in extent,
whence drops the last golden ray; a black cloud receives it. A glint of
silver lining and all is opaque.

I open my eyes to see Savant added to the circle, he was called, may be,
at my faint. But what is strange, he seems to know where I had
spiritually gone, and more, is expecting some revelation from me. I only
slowly shake my head, when he abruptly turns away.

My new spiritual power says of him, “He is the greatest of living men.”
I note where he disappears to sometime search him out.

The new telepathic condition I had suddenly gone into does not entirely
leave me. But takes a new form, that of outwardly statue or marble
state.

Seeming cold and rigid to others, I see intuitively into their minds,
read their thoughts and wishes. I am conscious at times of miraculous
ability, as though I could put forth my hand, and command omniscient
like.

As Robet tenderly teaches us Arc ways and diversions, I see the
adaptation in foreknowledge, and surprise her and the rest, so that they
are getting an awe of me, and are carefully respectful of my person.

                       [Illustration: Decoration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            “In the depths”


Mae goes out everywhere, often alone, finding the new ways and
amusements of the city.

When she finds one she thinks I will enjoy, she hurries home all out of
breath to take me or tell me.

She has been hunting around the halls to-day, as if there were hidden
mysteries close by. I do believe she has found one. Her hair flying and
eyes dancing, I go to meet her, to see what it is; getting some emotion
in my own frame. “Come in here, Auntie.” In there I go, like a lamb.

It is a glass entry of some sort. (I will stop to explain what I call
glass, as it is not exactly, but some transparency quite serving the
purpose.) Mae pulls certain knobs and lets in what——water!

“Auntie, this is bathday. We have on bath rigs. Put on this helmet with
its tubes above for breathing.”

I do so, as the water deepens. She opens a gate now, and a flood rushes
in, and takes us off our feet, which we regain by use of our elastic
breathing tubes.

We pass through the gate to all the glories of the sea. A sea bath—sea
mosses under our feet, shells piled in heaps, fern trees waving.

Mae dashes out and hides from view. I discover her, but cannot hold her
with my wet hands.

We hear a song. In the door of a crystal grotto stands a mermaid. “Come
into my bower, and I will give you amber. I am a sister of seven who
combs her long hair in the deep.”

Ascending steps of dainty harpshell, we tread an anemone carpet where is
a crowd of people.

Games are in order on rock ruby stands, in which I become engrossed, as
a “sister” plays a cameo-mandolin; another singing a rollicking song of
the sea, ending in sobs, for those who come down in ships.

There is sea-dancing—liquid symphony. I see Charley in his native
element, precluding tears or weeping for joy.

We round out on a tower top, and board a nautilus with unfurled sail. We
ride over a gold fish “gilt-edged” school, and a bank of red sea berries
that holly-like call up to us “Merry Christmas.”

Furling our sail, we drop down into the entry, which we empty, and
strange, our garments are dry.

We emerge among our friends. A sweep of robes is so close passing me, I
look up at the colossal face. It is Robet, but a strained, nervous look
forbids me to follow.

Toppling upon the hem of her robe, I am carried perforce in her company.
She stops in a conservatory, where one grand tree is growing, and bends
down a branch. I look to see it and all the tree transcribed with
names—a veritable family tree. More distraught, she speaks in a
loud-pitched voice, down into the face of Charley, who has followed me
(seeing him not), “Have you a pedigree?” He colors up in wrath, then
takes a tablet from my chatelaine, and places it in her hand, which
awakes her. Smiling, she says, “I did not mean you.” Charley reacting
from anger to hilarity, seizes a twig, crying. “I will write a
pedigree,” as a red pollen drops, touching up my cheeks. “They need it,”
he says, and goes for Mae, who now comes, and soon she glows like an
Indian.

When he is gone, Mae, in order for ablution, opens near by a door, that
is outwardly a picture. (More mystery).

Can it be the secret sanctum of Savant, that I have so vainly hunted?
Father sits in an easy chair deeply engaged with a pictured script. I
look around but see no books or apparatus—a cheerful, cosy room only. I
look over father’s shoulder as he turns the papyrus leaf, holding over
it a microscope. I catch sight of the meaning. Giving a sudden cry, he
arouses to my presence. He takes me on his knee, and we follow together
the tiny pictured lines of a story.

Anon a kitten purrs by me; I look up and see the host intently reading
my expression in his own absorbed, telepathic style. Genially smiling,
he takes my two hands, and kneeling places them on his head, thus
confessing his service to my will. Though in my new normal state, I feel
to deprecate myself, and smile in humblest mode, as he rises and sits
next us in similar seat.

Before we turn to our occupation, an incandescent glow falls upon the
page, causing us to raise our eyes quite wonderingly. The light emanates
quite mysteriously from Robet, whom I had not before observed as thus
illumined. I see in her hand a lighted lantern, which she is studying,
or the shining words upon it.

That these latter are possibly a code of rules is determined by her
action. Sinking down at Savant’s feet, she asks, “Do give me some new
plan for court to-day.”

“I will give you one,” speaks up father. She turns full to him.

“It is lawyer, a word signifying welfare.”

I was aware my English language was prolific of varied meanings. I am
pleased to hear this development. “Law,” he continues, “transposed is
‘well;’ yer is ‘fare.’”

Miss Robet has caught his idea, and elaborates it. “When I go into
court, the good word shall be welfare; when I come out—farewell,” and is
gone.

Dear Robet, what is her secret sorrow, that she hides in her tender
breast? Her genial soul should have no rebuff. Why is her intended away,
as I have heard?

Quite changeable in mood, as is Show Off, her great chum, who gets it
from his mother, the latter a triplet sister with Robet, and now on a
visit to the other triplet sister.

We now give attention to the story before us, but so loudly sounds a
refrain in my ears, “Savant before you is the greatest of living men,”
until I become impatient, and ask, “how great?” “Ask him hidden
knowledge,” refrains back to me.

What can it mean?

I will treat him to some unsettled points in spiritual doctrine to test
his lore.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




           Immortality of the soul is an universal instinct.
                         _Phil. Schaff, D. D._


Looking to where he sits, I study one in my mind, and observe father
sees my abstraction. I can tell by a wrinkling around his eyes, he is
preparing himself for enjoyment of the debate.

“What is the breath of life?” I at last ask ingenuously.

“Oh, I can answer that. I have found it out since I have been here. That
is an easy question. It is, my dear, electricity, which we assimilate
into spirit. Simple in explanation. The electric soul batteries of our
organism thus supplied by God, the maker of souls, drawn in with our
breath.” Quite suavely preaches my father to me.

“Yes, but there are two electricities; how could we take both and live?”

“There are two electricities, assuredly. They assimilate; the
assimilation is life.”

I feel dubious, but see clearer as he proceeds.

“The earth has negative electricity, the other positive, or masculine,
comes from the sun, uniting to life.”

Suddenly I burst out, “That makes the sun our father. Pray, who is God,
who made the sun?” The eye wrinkle deepens. “In that case, our
grandfather.”

I scorn to smile.

“Does this soul life have bodily sense after death?” I again venture a
second question.

“Yes, and bodily sustenance in the air, where is body material, tho’
invisible.”

I clasp my hands to my head, and rush out of the room. But close behind
me is Savant, who is pleased to wish more acquaintance.

I overcome my awe, but do not care to inquire on abstruse subjects. We
go out into the street, and traverse its length before I am attracted by
a special diversion. Entering a hall to rest, we are witness, to me, of
an utterly, and at first inconceivable, exhibit, unheard of before
novelty. It is the paradoxic act of a Concert, or Opera, without
sound—seen and not heard. Upon the stage are rows of lights
(reflections) graded in size like the string of a harp. Raising and
lowering these in varying figure by skilful players constituted the
performance. The changing (not unison) melodies in grave or gay parts,
or intermingling, swaying my emotions. I lean back in rapture.

I am studied by my escort, who has been addicted thus, since first he
looked at me.

The green sward beneath our feet, as on all floors, prevents the
unpleasant custom of stamping. Soon the walls moved in and out,
portraying drama. A row of graded boys and girls also, carrying dolls in
wickers that they stood up against the walls, bowed their heads and
waved their hands in pantomime melody. Marching away, the boys carried
the dolls.

We were quite diverted, laughed heartily, stamping on the sward floor,
that produced no sound.

“We will tell Mae about this,” I remarked. “Let’s go home and send her
here.”

We hurried to the palace to find her under a divan with her head out,
though covered by the flowing robe of a doll (mother bunch) into which
her hands had been made. Charley has to keep the people away, who are
greatly mystified as interested, while he is asking questions, answered
by bowing or head shaking of the sorceress.

Suddenly he answers for the doll in ventriloquism, from which they back
in amazement.

When it is over and Mae released, so great is their awe of us, I seek to
enhance it. I take my watch and convince them it is alive.

This quite overcomes them. I turn to see Charley, slowly at first, then
swifter nod his head up and down, as tho’ some unusual resolve was
engrossing his calculations, soon I find out. Coming around to me, he
says: “I feel a call in my soul to initiate this people to serve our
God. I will take this almighty dollar,” suiting in action, he goes
through some wizard tricks.

We are tired before they. “Do tell us some more,” they ask.

The next day they are still curious, and keep us engaged in exhibit.

We advert to our railroads, telephones, etc., to their confusion, as we
have no samples. Catching in their perplexity some similarity to their
own achievements, they bring forward and strive to teach us how they
move articles by a _solution_. Chairs and street cars in their wizard
propulsion are solved.

“Is it a vegetable or mineral?”

“It is animal.”

Their explanation as greatly confounded us.

“We get it from a fish, which Savant found when he was last over the
ice. He saw the ice strangely cracking to find the queer fish. Grasping
it, there was an explosion of sound. He brought some home, but they are
hard to raise.” Finding us continue in solicitude to understand, they
treat us in exchange of our revelations. Our story reminds them of one
to match it.

One day explaining to Robet how Unit ladies make themselves
young-looking by cosmetics and pencils, she says briskly, “I will take
you to-morrow where they make themselves old and wise-looking. You will
be pleased; it is a fine city.”

After dinner we go. Arriving, I see the houses are crackled in straight
or curved lines of beautiful design. Lines are the fashion.

The costume was striped in pattern. The sward carpet was stems in
graceful arrangement.

The table for light refreshments was a single piece, curving in rings
from top-vase to cake and lower fruit-trays down to numberless seals,
all curls of its octopus dimensions.

As Robet said, the special fad in face garniture of the ladies, as well
as the gents, was aged penciling in lines. The marks of wisdom sit
quaintly on young brows. Drooping mouths are traced to upward curve. Sad
eyes smile; laughing are deepened in thought.

The ribbon-dressed babies are ribboned into similar hammocks, to be
swung back and forth.

Their mode of worship at court was to stand in straight lines, like
soldiers of God.

Their games are sticks (kindergarten) which they also work into
ingenious devises of cabinets and stands. The arches of apartments
decorated thus.

Their adieu was straightening of the fingers.

When on our way home, I kiss Robet. My statue sense is wearing away.
Still yet, I seem to see the past and future. Interior of minds. An
aura-cathode light clarifies. I ask; to answer; my own questions.

“Are spirits before birth individuals?”

“No, only in bulk, combining chemically at birth.”

“Dangers in this life, are there dangers in the next?”

“There are.” I listen to myself statue like.

At last I ask Savant, “What is it?” He is puzzled as I, and questions me
on my church faith. I tell him about Adam and Jesus; the latter to tell
us all mysteries, when he comes in the clouds. He is intensely
interested. I get my bible and read to him day after day.

Much affected one day, he looks up to ask: “May not he the God have sent
this upon you to make you his second forerunner?”

Is the secret solved? Am I the herald-searchlight to His path?

(And is he—the Savant—my mission aid)? Near by me, concealed by
art-screen, I hear a sob, and see a yellow gleam of hair drop on a
loving shoulder. Saucy sobs up to a face, thinking deeply. “Cholly,”
coaxing, “what shall we do—will she go up into the sky?”

A jerk of the shoulder straightens up the head, and sobers the grotesque
grief of its face. “No, you do not know her. She is smart, I allow, but
not so smart as she thinks.” (I feel so funny as I listen). “She is weak
yet from her illness is all.”

“O!” ejaculates Saucy as she relapses to her usual self.

Something rustles under my feet. I pick up a piece of American
newspaper. Saucy says behind me, “That was around my lunch mamma put up.
She is still looking, I suppose,” deeply sighing.

I carefully read each precious word. A short but torn excerpt on science
contains this: “I said one good thing of the soul. That it was
electrified after death.”

I am at sea. It was not Savant’s lore, but my father’s, who had deceived
me. I go to him with the scrap. He reads and smiles, then takes up a
leaf near him. Holding over it a microscope, I see on it a picture of
cloud lightening taking a spirit to the sky. A wielder of that
lightening concealed afar off. I am at sea again.

I take to studying the leaves myself, seeing how useless to question
Savant.

Charley and Mae too study with me. Still, the latter jealously watches
Savant. Whose modes and agencies are new. Though I see magnetism appear
at times, I cannot tell how produced (he works in an alcove one side).

Every morning I am a fixture here, studying, marking a place on the
register to visit in the afternoon. So safe am I, now a citizen, I often
go alone. Charmed as “Van Winkle,” stay long away.

I am surprised they show no solicitude. Mae one time is absent a week.
Alarmed I go to Savant. He takes the register telephones of her
position. Then in a shining leaf shows me in picture what has passed to
her. I feel to get up and hug him. But hug Charley who is come. “You had
better go after her,” he says. “Why, I know all she does.” “Yes, but you
should direct what she does,” wisely.

I look to the leaf. A new impress is coming. Behind her as she is
backing unconsciously toward it, is an open crevasse trench in use by a
workman. I startle the air with a scream to Savant, “Call me,” says
Charley, authoritatively, who looks on the plate, to call Savant
himself. The latter seeing the dilemma, without leaving his laboratory,
touches a button, that closes the crevasse behind Mae, as she steps on
it safely. I hug Charley convulsively.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




           “Logic is logic. That’s what _I_ say.”—_O. W. H._


My husband, always so loving, so bonny and practical, has become sober
and long-faced, no shadow of a smile. No hop, skip and jump, like Saucy
Mae. Even she he passes absent-minded. If she pulls his sleeve, he does
not heed, so she follows him around to find what the matter is. As she
makes a body-guard, I leave her to watch him.

He has just come out of Savant’s room, absorbed in some papers, he
carefully carries in his hand, assorting them as he noiselessly walks
along, the genius behind failing to get a peep at their contents.
Hearing me approach, he hastens to conceal them in the shrubbery,
disappearing himself.

Saucy having lost him, takes up with me, and we run out and up the
street, looking in at various places. Seeing familiar faces in a crowd
at an opera house, we join them.

Seeing us, the crowd gives way, and gets up in front, where we become
the cynosure of the audience (the performance not having commenced), who
look from us to the stage, as if in connection, enigmatical to us.

Puzzled no longer, we see Charley come out and take position as speaker.

Our mouths as well as eyes open in wonder. What will happen next?

With preoccupied bearing, he explains our discovery of iron, that raised
man from savagery to civilization, builds ships and houses. It was well
we were before him and appreciated his discourse (the home reminiscence
starts the old pain) for the audience do not understand a word he says,
but connecting his gestures, they oddly imitate the latter.

He turns to us and changes to an abstruse subject, not at all congenial
to him.

“Americans concede three natures to man and five senses. I will show him
to possess seven natures, each represented by a sense.” We are quite
attentive. “Touch, first, by his palm, denoting his acquiring nature.” I
clap my hands. “Taste, second, by his tongue, denoting his sustenance
nature.” I muse to myself, do we kiss because we are cannibals, and
would like to eat the one we kiss?

“Social, third, by his lips, denoting his impress nature.” O yes, that
is why we kiss. “Vibrative, fourth, his ear, denoting his emotional
nature.” I think him quite a phrenologist. Mae is some dazed.
“Atmospheric, fifth, by his nose, denoting his steam nature.” Mae sends
up a prolonged shout.

“Solar, sixth, by his eyes, denoting his mental nature.” I shake my
finger at him.

“Soul, by his hair, denoting electric spirit nature.” I come to my feet,
raising both hands, as he proceeds.

“The hair as covering or ornament of the head has not received
sufficient dignity. As telegraph lines of divine construction communes
with God, raises its value.” I place my hands on each of his shoulders,
as he finishes impressively.

“Above the mind, summit of senses, its own power only has revealed it
even to sight.”

Remembering him coming out of Savant’s studio, I am not surprised.

But I continue the thread. Does this theory contravene the immortality
of the soul, teach dissolution with the body? O, no.

The operator back of the telegraph machine does not integrate with the
machine. The telegraph wires down do not signify the operator to be in
the same condition.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                  My spirit lies, with dreamful eyes,
                     Beneath the walls of Paradise.


I catch sight of Show Off coming leisurely toward us. Has he caught the
last part of the lecture, and is he, too, of a studious disposition. For
raising his eyes intelligently, he continues the discourse. “Still we
are made of dust!” (What can _he_ know of dust?) “Birds,” going on, “are
made of trees, for their feathers are little branches. Fishes are of
waterbirth—their scales little drops. Beasts of grass, with coats of
grass fur. Sheep of snow wool.” I am wool gathering. “Reptiles have clod
skins. We are only of the dust—marble, granite or otherwise.” I decide
to read him Genesis some day.

But now he speaks up more blithe. “We are going to-morrow to Aunt
Roban’s house, where my mother Roba is, to get her,” winking his eye at
Saucy.

We are delighted as we return, all together. I look at the streets and
people, not knowing I shall see them no more forever.

The next morning, that is getting very late, we are placed in an open
sleigh, to try the new snow, in making the trip. As it is a gala day,
called Inning Day, so everybody is out. “Will everybody be at Roban’s?”
I ask Show Off, who is holding Saucy by my side.

“Yes, and more too, for the Traveler will be there,” he replies moodily.

“Who is he, and where does he travel?”

“Up in the sky on his air star.”

“And what does he do up there?” I smile.

“He fishes below with a line.”

I look warily each side or me.

“Do you like him?”

“Yes, but he wants me to marry his daughter.”

“Well?”

“She won’t have me, as she loves my cousin, Aunt Roban’s son. Her father
expects our betrothal at this time.” He stops a moment, then resumes.
“He is engaged, himself, to be married to Aunt Robet, who does not dare
to tell him of his coming disappointment.”

“How did she, so gentle, ever fancy so douty a man?”

“It was at a ride. The cavalry were going by so swift she became dizzy
and was falling, when he by a deft move put her back. When he appears,
ever since, she is like affected. He is coming now.”

With a start, I look up to the sky, which is clear. Then I look about at
the celebrators, thinking he may be come to earth, and be among them.
And though I see a strange mist in the distance, I become occupied in
studying the various modes of conveyance close around. Of every odd
design, one vehicle is oddest. It is a round glass globe that rolls over
and over, bearing its inmates upright, ballasted in the interior. It has
only ladies, so I look ahead.

Ahead is a bridge, shaped like a flight of stairs (rests for the
horses). Around the farther tower arches—strong supports of the
suspended ends—a mist is twining and winding, glistening peculiarly.
Show Off seeing my intent gaze looks there, and hastily takes from his
father’s pocket a glass and absorbedly scans the mist. I had forgotten
the Traveler’s approach, of shock to Robet, who leans back her head
gasping faintly. But directly over us is the shocking man, on a high
seat, over high runners, between which glides our humble sleigh. At Show
Off’s shout, he looks down, his stern face relaxing genially, recovering
Robet.

Thus disturbed, Show Off drops the glass, which I pick up, wonderingly.

One look, and I am curious too. For deep within the luminous vapor are
human beings, lace seated and draped. They are singing, their
countenances reflecting the inspiring symphony. Studying closely, I
detect a peculiarity of expression, as if masculine and feminine are
combined, both strong and tender. Coming swiftly, and bending low, they
must brush us as they pass. A child in front of adult, eyes exhilarantly
my exotic bouquet. I select a dainty bud, and raise it over my head. The
gust shuts my eyes. But I feel a tiny touch that wisps away my bud. From
our slow journeying, we are too late to make our address at Roban’s,
before the election, which occurs to-day. So proceed to that function.
Seated comfortably upon the Central Plaza, a nice esplanade covered with
rugs, we are scarcely seated when two ladies and a gent approach us, who
by their family resemblance are no doubt sisters of Robet. One hugs her
tremblingly. The other is hugged vigorously by Savant, his wife Roba.
She is, though of exact likeness, still of different temperament from
the others. More sedate, quite stately, though none the less lovable.
When Savant puts my father with his silver hair and shining black eyes
on her lap, she is quite awe struck. When my father reaches up and
kisses her reverently on the cheek; she is more nonplussed still, and
takes her muff to sit him on.

The gent is no doubt the husband of the other sister, who snaps his
fingers at Charley, when he wishes he did not, for the latter bites it
viciously; then rubbing the bite over, he lays his cheek on it, in
penitence. He is forgiven, but not taken up on his lap, but I am
instead, and smile profusely to keep the peace. Saucy is on Roban’s
shoulder, and chatting like a parrot into her ear, which just suits this
lady, she answering as glibly.

“O, how late you are! We could not wait for you, but left the castle
open and came on. Has the Traveler come?” That individual passes without
seeing us. Before we hail him, we hear music of a band approach. The
melody is whistling as will Boreas shortly whistle over the land.

Conducting two lines in grand march, in election mode, headed by the
chosen Mayor and Mayoress, respectively, or as they call them, god and
goddess.

The evolutions ended, the two lines join, and the crowd standing, all
sing.

                    E’er the sun our father leaves us
                    He, as a parent, leads us
                    To the indoor mother’s side
                    To spend the winter tide.

The candidates, now in full view, are recognized by Robet with
consternation. “Roban’s son, and his daughter,” are her startling words.

We all turn silently toward Roban’s home. The ceremonies now ended. The
new city officers, receiving congratulations around, also join our
party, staying in our rear.

The castle supposed to be open is not so now, but is double barred
inside against us, as we arrive.

Through the crystal portal, we see in the center court, sitting
nonchalantly as revengefully, the man who rode over us. We are out in
the cold, and what is worse, quite hungry.

Savant calls out, “Hello, neighbor.” He arises and is about to come
forward, when his daughter laughs out, “Now papa, good papa,” which
stops him, and he turns square his back to us.

Beyond and near to him is a revolving plant stand, reaching high above
his head. A plant is moving mysteriously. I see my father under a leaf
(I had not missed him). He is arranging something under a blossom. I
cannot tell what.

Now before us and at our feet down drops the nervous Robet, who cannot
keep her dignity longer.

Around goes the plant stand and sounds out this word, which is from a
phonograph (placed by father) in Arc, “Look ye.” Around again, it is
above him. “Looky,” now one side, now behind. Mystified, the stolid man
looks around as directed, not at our faces, where he will see the
mirthful countenance of his daughter, but at our feet where he sees a
countenance pale and in tears. The spell is broken, and as father leaps
on his shoulder like a good fairy, he lets us in.

A castle band now starts up to a tune resembling the snapping of a fire,
reminding us of the day of the Inning Fireside. Now crackling forth with
renewed zest, the people arrange themselves in cavalcade, and slowly
march, with spiral inclination, around the hall, towards its center.

Robet, supported by her lover, pulls me out of her bag to amuse him,
much to my ill-will. But father winks to me over his head, and pulls his
hair. Nearing the center of the room, the Traveler firmly and (I see his
daughter grimacing close by) turning from the pleading Robet goes out of
the room, and out of the house, disappearing down the street.

Wondering at this action, I look for information, to the center
gathering, I see a crystal floor in circle shape, with round divans in
its center. I am mystified as we are seated on this divan, and look down
at the crystal floor. I get a great start, for my feet seem to be
standing up in the sky, so far down is the crevasse below, whence comes
up a brilliant glow, the only light in the apartment now, as blinds and
shades are placed to protect it. Whence this light arises, I cannot
imagine, as the sun is not in focus, or other light.

I take a great like to Roban, who is as friendly as vivacious. I get
upon her lap to hear her chat.

“Good-bye,” she says, “my upper sky home, for the winter. My plant stand
you may rest until spring (outing as she calls it).”

I am mystified why the people stop to sit here, as there is no table.

With a slight jar, the crystal floor now loosens, and more surprise,
descends. Now beneath the floor, the light is increasing, and a warmth
also, at which we cast off our wraps, displaying evening costume of
home. The car, I now see it to be, is in triplet decoration. Triplet
bell clusters favor us with melodies. I wonder how long we are
descending, when jar, sway, float, as in water. I look about. “Where, oh
where is this?”

We are on the bosom of a broad river in a scene of tropical beauty and
grandeur.

Mae and Charley, as I, are as completely surprised, the others enjoying
its fulness.

“Eden, Eden, garden paradise, whence came you here?” I weep beside
myself in joy. Is this what explorers seek? But they will never get
here. It is hemmed in by the iceberg, two-edged swords, as effectually
as the other one of our first parents.

Roban asks, “What is Eden?” I told her of Adam’s, and the one to come
down to us from the sky. “No,” she says gravely, “the city will grow up
to God.”

Is San Francisco (San-Zion) thus growing?

I see that Show Off, unlike all the others, is in a growing state of
excitement. I jump down quickly and climb to his side, where he is
leaning on the railing of the barge, looking expectantly into the water.
I punch him vigorously. “Tell me, tell me, how came this river down
here, and its vicinity?” He answers vaguely, not looking up, “By the
melting of the under ice.”

“Yes, but to be a flowing river?”

“We confined it for safely, by dykes and jetties,” becoming quite
distraught at some inward thought. Does he mourn the Traveler’s
daughter?

Roban has followed me, and now explains to me more fully.

“When the river got to going good, it melted the ice above clear through
to the sky.” I look up at the faraway opening.

“The sky opening,” she continues, “vegetation started.” I look now
eagerly at the nearby banks in begonia bloom, and crowned with palms.
Long aisles of verdure penetrate the vista, closed by green sheen. One
specialty of form is general, that of vine-climbing and up-looking.

Returning my attention to Roban, she resumes her coaching. “Cities too
sprang up. We will stop now and get some of the luscious fruit,” as the
car-barge slows and draws up to an orchard station.

We who have listened spellbound to explanation are getting over our
paralysis, and are the first to jump on land. Saucy running crazy is
soon lost to view. We dart hither and thither with delight, pulling
mangoes, decking ourselves with orchids, mimicking songsters. I wonder
no more where they get their conservatory plants. When a bell calls us
to dinner.

In a bower, vine surrounded and bird enlivened, we draw up to board, not
a board, either—none, or saws to make them are in the land, it is a
great lily leaf, hardened and enameled.

Indentations serve for places. The food, on small leaf trays, arises
from the table center dummy like. It is in mouthful-size pastry cups
(that makes me think of home tarts), blending grain food with other
kinds. Raised with the fingers, nothing can be neater.

The seats are leaves. Springs raise us smaller people to a level with
the rest.

I observe greatly rejuvenated looks in us and say to Charley: “Do you
see we are getting younger?” He stops picking a pomegranate. “Certainly.
It is the purity of the atmosphere. Have you noticed, my dear, that
there has been no dust since our arrival? And, tho’ the sun is
constantly shining, no one carries a shade or is overheated. Ah, this is
the Country to live in!” Smacking his lips before starting in again on
the fruit.

“Glorious Arc!” I can not say it enough! None other place like thee on
earth in gorgeous marvels! Nearest to God above! I could climb a Pole to
see Him, hadst thou one! I look around to see the climatic effect upon
my aged father; but he is not here. I remember he may be yet on the
Traveler’s shoulder for farther travel. This somewhat modifies my
charm—for a short time only, then I give way like the rest to the
fulness of this Inning Reception. As bright tints float around in the
air, on the water, and foliage, I wonder what pencil but God’s could put
them there.

As we return to the barge Saucy at my elbow grasps my sleeve, saying,
“Auntie, did you see the team that draws the barge? If you did not, look
this time, now.”

What?—what? Crocodiles?

I stagger back, then renerve myself, reassured that what I had always
supposed so hideously untamable could be well broke, kept well in hand,
presenting an innocent pair of open countenances.

“How odd the water is Auntie,” says Mae, when we are calmly seated. She
is looking over the side, then rises and crosses to the other. “It is
high up on one side and low down on the other.”

Robet speaks without looking up, her eyes intent on her nephew, leaning
moodily on the railing. “The river flows sideways.”

“How—how can it?”

“It melts on its inward side, freezing on its outward again.”

“Making ice for cool drinks,” says the child.

While dropping in the incline I commenced a study of the triplet
sisters. Observing them distinct in style with the river people (of whom
they are, and are now to visit their parents, Robet has said), I will
describe them.

Tall and sinuous from a constant looking up to the sky. A changeable
coloring or iridescence enhances their supple attenuation. Robet, when
musing, as I have related in the arbor above, was sober gray-eyed; when
demanding so proudly Charley’s pedigree, intensely black-eyed; then, in
tears recovering him, her eyes were blue, vapor-covered lakes. Seeing
this variableness repeated in her sisters I decided it to be
constitutional; I looked to see if it was a water reflection. No, for it
is not on us others.

Roban and Roba are on each side getting acquainted.

To start conversation instructive to myself I ask the gracious ladies;
“How was it before the country was dyked into a river?”

“We were not born then. Our father was contractor and has told us how
unpleasant were the freshets and disasters yearly.”

“Whole nations were swept away. Did you not find any down there?” Roba
relates.

“I never heard, though Adam, the father of all mankind, was very large
in size, the people became smaller afterwards.”

Looking earnestly at me I see them change slowly from blonde to a gray
tint, bending their heads in reflection, (I see with great surprise.)

“We have always been large. I think it is the cold zone; its slow
revolution causing it. The torrid, as Charley says, with its far
revolution is very hot.” A flush on her face as she raises her
serpentine head.

“It gets more sun and the people there are larger, too,” I correct.

Their eyes, my surprise increasing, turn brown as she steadfastly gazes.

“Then it is not the cold that makes us grow, but preserves us, giving us
great age. We are millenniums old,” she breathes gently,
chestnut-haired.

I am transfixed. When able to look up I see a halo round her head; a
slight toss and it is dislodged in a ring leaving her in violet.

Going on with her deductions a dawn color follows her words.

“Our great size is due to our daylight.”

“But we have as much as you, tho’ more subdivided,” I correct again.

“You have not counted our winter daylight,” she persists.

“Winter daylight? What is that?” I inquired.

“From the center of Arc is always arising, from a deep cavity there, a
constant glow, Aurora! In summer it is not seen, but all winter we bask
in its light.”

“How is that? I supposed Aurora only sent up fitful lights.”

“Instead, this constant, interspersed with fitful sputterings, that send
the flame so high, lower zones do gaze upon it.” Closing a phosphor
color enfolds us, then rises above. Notes in the waves—trumpet notes,
conducted toward us till they sound all about us. A mist-like spray is
rising around. Looking out I am startled to see a large company of
people standing on the water in the center of the river playing
lily-tube trumpets as in graceful ease they dance a stately minuet.

Raising aloft their tubes they spray the air with perfumed drops, which,
catching the rays of the sun through the ice-cleft, a glorious rainbow
arch settles above as we draw to shore and alight upon a wharf of lily
pads.

The sun passes on ahead having kept such even pace with us all day that
it had appeared to be standing still in the sky. The heat had called for
our light dress. To-morrow it will be in lower horizon.

We have arrived in a city that is like the people, tall and pointing
high—a city of slim, needle-like towers.

Passing toward a mansion I turn to tell Show Off to pattern after the
young man with the river dancers, looking so like him who was gay, when
lo! he is not with us.

“It was Show Off himself, Auntie, I saw him put on the funny boat-shoes
and drop overboard.”

“Who is the young lady he was bending over,” I inquire.

“I do not know, some more complications I expect,” inimicably.

“Saucy,” I say comically, “he is not for you.”

“I know it,” sighing, “I will never have him to carry me around on his
shoulder.”

What are Savant and Roba doing ahead, walking up the outside of a tower
residence? Truly they are, and our turn come we see plenty of steps and
walk up too.

Arrived at the second story we enter a low gate into a circular room the
size of the tower. Around the outside is a row of seats which we proceed
to occupy. In front of us are promenading round and round the river
dancers, buoyant in youth.

From these Show Off leads a lustrous river maid and presents as
betrothed to his family, who can but smile upon them, except Robet who
gets quite pale. Whispering to her, “Cheer up, Auntie, love is might,”
he draws her to her feet and waltzes her around until she is hopeful
again. We all get up and dance in honor of the betrothal.

When we sit again the others wait upon us from the center of the room,
which is a mass of flowers, fruit and pastry.

The dance starting on, Robet says to me, “Let’s go out.”

“All right.”

She touches a button and we elevate to the top of the tower. A branch of
clove-scented vine brushes my cheek. Seeing me peer down Robet hands me
a glass to see into the shade of the tropical park beneath.

Seeing me occupied she bends down her head in meditation. Then sighs and
sighs to herself, bravely struggling with these breakers in her love
stream.

I am examining each detail in the grounds beneath. From the palm leaf
that is so strong Saucy runs up and slides down it. Tired of this she
picks an odd blossom in shape of a tiny cupid with drawn bow. At her
touch shoots the tiny arrow and to break in fragrance. Would that all
Love’s arrows were so sweet. I suddenly realize where the verdure of
Upper Arc is produced, as familiar forms greet me, faithfully growing up
as to the summer day. Where are they now? Glass protected in upper
arbor.

Tired of the Cupids, Mae now rolls over and over in the grass with
abandon of childish glee until she suddenly comes upon two lovers—Show
Off and Serpenta (I have named) which latter smiles her a welcome,
stooping down to raise her to where they sit, a long, slim, rope looking
swing or hammock. But Mae starts back with a scream, which makes me look
close. O, dear, it is the live folds of a boa constrictor.

I get faint as Robet looks up and takes in the situation.

“Do not fear,” she says, “it does not eat children, it is better fed.”

Imagining she is laughing at me I brace up to great bravery, asking,
“Can I ride, too?”

“Yes, we will go down, look out;” the latter in reference to the chair
upon which I sit—one of a row of seats around the lower edge, facing
outward. I look quite curiously and assure myself its rails are in front
as on each side of me, inclosing me quite secure. Connecting it to her
own, she presses on them heavily downward. Feeling warned, as curious, I
feel the top bend over forwards, still more. I hold quite fast. My head
is now where my heels have been. This is not all; increasing the
velocity we complete the revolution, and repeat it to the foot of the
tower, where I come standing, red with vexation (the idea of a lady of
my age rolling down the side of a house), my temperate zone stomach
quite upset.

But “click” at the top. There is Roba in similar chair, who signifying
that she will join us is about to round the edge. I recover my temper in
anticipation of being witness to her acrobatic descent—stateliness
combined. But no; she slowly goes over, smoothly, down to the bottom
dignifiedly—right side up with care. I turn reproachfully to Robet.

“I thought you were in for a frolic,” she says innocently.

This restores my gaiety and we return to the arbor with zest and join
the jolly crowd who are making the garden ring. They make room for me on
the boa, where I ride, the danger enhancing the delight. I regret to get
down for others. As I do so, the great graceful head of the boa swings
close to me, the mouth opens, the eyes dart fire; then next I discover
it is an art manufacture.

“There are real ones, Auntie, but they do not let strangers ride.”

A storm is brewing, as I hear a thunder peal; no clouds above—some are
in the vista, rapidly drawing near, close to the ground. What an odd
hurricane! No; with bounds and roars a herd of white lions rush into
near precinct and wait, low crouched. Their long pink-tinted manes make
them so handsome I forget they are fierce. Some are grand and nervous
looking, others young and playful. Calling one of the latter by name, it
wriggles from the rest to go to Show Off. Saucy stepping up too
frightens it back; but trying again he coaxes it to him, where Saucy
also strokes it, saying: “You must give it to me to take to America,”
bless her.

A shout and he strides its back, then with merry bounds, race and glee,
they give us quite a circus.

My attention is called to my side by a mysterious self-satisfied lisp. I
turn to see Charley who is taking notes for future lectures. I look over
to get the train of ideas. What do I see—“How lions dance in our
country; machines put in their mouths, they sing.”

“O Charley, what a drop. I had counted on your wonderful conversion, and
here are you improvising wonders.”

Roban is getting social. “There are not many lions now. They were
dangerous; the city filling up has thinned them out. Do you want one?”

I am still in chagrin, so answer crossly the sweet-tempered lady, “What
for? Will it take me home on its back?”

She eyes me sideways, still serene. “Do you want to go home?” I choke up
in golden silence. “When you want to go the Traveler will take you,”
complacently.

Roused to ire at my earnestness being taken for jest, I launch out
disrespectfully, “That crusty man would drop me over an iceberg and
think his duty done.”

She does not heed me as her sister Robet is now approaching quite rosy
cheeked, and is about to dance me up and down, which I never allow, when
I can help myself.

Roban says to her sorrowfully, “The little dear is going home with the
Traveler.”

I smile, then say to Robet, “When he and you are married I will go.”
Then I eye her sideways.

O what a drop! My Charley untruthful! When he says my church raises
money untruthfully in its fairs and suppers.

I was about to have him teach this people how Christ incarnated is to
come on the earth from the clouds. Shall I now do so instead? Yes. I
select the Traveler’s daughter as one quite wayward, and say: “Dear
lady, an American (oh no!) a man like us little folks is in the sky;
some day he will come down and make us golden streets,” smiling broadly.

“What is gold?” she inquires.

“Something harder than rock.”

“’Twill hurt your feet; grass is better.”

“Glass houses,” I continue. “That is fine.”

“No one will marry.” O what a face she makes.

“No dear little children?” she pleads.

“No one dies,” I continue.

“O how nice and old.”

“Always fruit and flowers.” I feel I am getting along nicely. When she
asks:

“How is that? they being the children of tree and plant marriage.”

“I never thought of that,” but continue:

“All dead will come to life.”

“Where is the room for them?”

“All bad men will be killed off.”

“Who will kill them off?”

“He that comes out of the sky.”

“Their spirits would haunt him.”

“He would kill their spirits, too.”

“None but God can do that.”

“He is the Son of God.”

“O, is God married?” so impiously, I lose heart. But Roban comes to my
aid. With shining expectant eyes she now interrogates me.

“When will He come?” I shake my head.

“_Who_ will He bring to life?” persisting.

“Those who love Him. O dear, dear Roban, do you love God?” I am pleading
for a soul.

“That I do,” is her positive confession.

“Do you love His Son?” my hands clasped toward her.

“Anything that belongs to Him,” so beatifies me I spring to my feet to
declare:

“Then _you_ will be saved, for love is the fulfilling of the law.”

Drops sprinkle all about. I look back of me to see Saucy with inspired
face who has been listening. Thus bestowing this rite upon this new
convert, who strangely takes on a serious look.

“I know whom you mean,” she says. “He does like this,” pointing her
hands as in prayer. What can she mean?

“He comes here to teach us.”

“Who, who? It cannot be He, the Son. Does the spirit of an apostle
transfigured appear in this city—this city of love? I am astounded.”

“He says that in a century hence electricity will create a human being.”

What can she mean? Is the camera-eye, telephone-ear to be supplemented
by a dynamo head, put on locomotive lungs and stood on wheel feet?

Truly here is sympathy in Arc for such invention.

Twenty-four hours without sleep. I yawn so terribly. Robet anxiously
straightens me out on a chair for repose.

I dream in shadow of friends and home. Saucy’s mother hugs her close.

Next my chair is moved easily along and I open my eyes in an ice grotto,
where a large company is assembled, whom I imagine are the many
relatives.

As older people, like them in feature are occupying special chairs of
state—the parents?

The change to cool arbor from summer heat is so greatly refreshing I
regain animation.

At the parents’ request, we are placed on pedestals for exhibition.

“Are all so small?” they inquire.

“We are medium. There are midgets and giants,” we reply.

“How greatly you have multiplied. How great the size of the earth in
comparison with Arc. You do more wonderful acts in proportion as you
have more land to work upon.”

They place their hands upon our heads in token of membership in their
family.

                       [Illustration: Decoration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                      “There is magic in the air.”


Another pedestal is being occupied by Show Off and Serpenta, who are
dancing a betrothal. In graceful pose and gesture, his movements are an
epic poem in majesty and solid grandeur, hers the duplicate shadow of
his, with interlacing quicksteps. An ice dance on the ice, the feet not
raised off. The complication of steps is insidious to the eye in their
noiseless turns. Noiseless? rising on the air is a melody, that grows
and lessens, produced by the swift slipping. Ending in smooth tone as
true love ought.

When it is over, and the company dispersed, I wander around by myself to
soon get lost in the tangle of halls, which labyrinth every way. Just
here are niches in the walls with statues of people and animals like
life. Here is a family group. The host is deep in Arc news ball (writing
rolled up) his wife is crossing the floor toward the grandma, asleep in
her arm chair, a kitten rolled up beside it. A child is playing on the
floor. I touch its soft hair. It is cold. An idea enters my mind. Have
not all these been once alive, and now ice embalmed? I intrude no
farther. None look up to ask me to stay. A charm comes over me driving
all uncanny sense away. How pleasant to have our dead welcome among us,
as though not lost.

Now I come to rooms of birds and other pets. A boa that swung Robet in
olden time. What is this, an elephant like the mammoth, ice-locked in
southern zone. Washed away?

“O auntie!”

I turn nervously around. It is not Miss Mae but Miss Serpenta. Show
Off’s betrothed, who has mistaken my name.

“Miss Robet is in the great hall, where Charley (mistake) is going to
lecture. It is superbly decorated, a great globe of the earth in the
center, colored. He will tell all about it. He has counted out a
thousand and one inventions never seen here. He says he will lionize the
natives. She told me to find you, for though any can enter an open
archway, none can open a closed door.”

I begin to feel as if Blue Beard lived here. The open rooms are so
magnificent and shining one need not hunt him up.

“The cue in the halls,” goes on the friendly girl, “is to keep on the
smooth path. The lecture will soon begin. She is afraid you will take
cold or something and wants you by to watch you.”

“To watch me!” I muse maliciously. “Did I come, clear to Arc to be
watched by an old maid, an old one truly?”

_I turn to the rough path._ What is that under that chair? I do believe
it is a paper. Charley has dropped some of his notes. I am so tired. I
will sit down while I pick them up. Why don’t they come out? I get up
and perceive the chair is an open work door, solid built.

“O,” says Serpenta, trembling, as I hurry to undo the bar. She is
paralyzed. As I open the door a little way, I see in the jar a Blue
Beard. I said the lions are pink, this one is blue. His paw on the
paper, his breath on me. No art manufacture now.

I dream in shadow. I see Show Off, who has followed his girl, with one
tremendous blow put us two around an archway. The lions are in the room.
They mind him not. When did a king mind? They see me not. I see them
from reflections on the ice mirror walls.

He leans against a column and plays. (He has in his mouth a harmonica,
Saucy’s property.) Plaintive at first, then shrill, one note touches a
chord in the lions’ ears. They shake their heads. It comes again. They
snort. A mother back of them calls to a lost babe; three heroes go to
her aid flying. The door is shut. Tableau.

The lecture is very good. When it comes to lions I am surprised to see
in the archway behind Charley, no less than Show Off astride his young
thoroughbred, who, when lions are said to dance and play music in
America, this one dances and plays behind the speaker, who looks back
wild-eyed. The harmonica in its mouth, Show Off chokes out the strains
with his hands. So apt and comical is it, the speaker himself breaks out
laughing. Show Off has learned to read Unit writing. He got the paper
under the door. Did not get left by a Unit scion.

I am sitting by the girl, who says:

“I could listen all day about the marvelous people when Aunt Robet takes
you home I will go along.”

“O say no more, I implore. I feel so lost when I think of home.”

“To-morrow,” I see she is going to make me happy again, “I will take you
over the city. It is one of many that occur every ten miles. This side
the river is our summer home, the other is our winter.”

The next morning I take to the tower top and delight myself by
discovering another motion still of the chairs. It is a circle whirl
which I practice until I feel I am seasoned to any mode of motion sprung
on me.

Serpenta seeks me out, and asks me sweetly what place we shall visit
first.

“O, no matter.”

“A library?”

“Very well.”

She connects our chairs securely, as did Robet, and presses them to
motion, without saying as did Robet, “look out.”

We are moving—how, _how_? Her “look out,” had she said it, would have
helped one less than Robet’s. For this is worse—so much more worse.

Not so exhilarating, quite the opposite. I am losing my breath in a
faint, so utterly unprepared am I, for we are moving straight out into
space. I look sideways to see Serpenta calm. I look in front, if to see
a track, none there. Nothing above or below to hold, not even a wire.
Still we are steady and aim to another tower top that is rapidly
nearing. Now we stop on it. I get down and walk around my chair to find
its wizard action. No track, did I say? There is a track—good rail track
behind. It pops into my head it is after the method devised some years
ago for a railroad to lay its track as it went, but must have land to
lay it on. This carries and steadies its supplements—bridge-like.

We descend the elevator into an elegant room of many windows and
drapery, seat ourselves beside one, high and wide. The scene outside is
exquisite. Some fur-clad people are on the ice around a fire cooking. A
ship in the distance is ice locked.

But there is no ice in this neighborhood.

“How do you like the picture?” asked Serpenta eagerly.

“O, the window is a picture; it is fine,” I reply enlightened.

“Is it like your people that go in ships?”

“They must be the last explorers whom Savant found. How I wish I could
rescue them and bring them into Arc.”

“Did you say this is a library, where are the books?”

She presses on the picture frame; it changes as a part advances, opens
and is a book. The back was part of the picture. It is Savant’s story in
pictured writing and quite enlists my sympathy. Seeing me tearful she
takes me outside and leaves me in a shrubbery plot, while I attempt to
compose my features.

Hearing a sob from someone else close by, I am upset again and weep in
sympathy. I peer through the low-lying branches and see Robet in a mossy
nook, giving way to hysterical bitterness, her hands over her face.

Now, two other hands pull them away to give her view of the laughing
face of Show Off. She pushes him off spitefully. Partly losing his
balance, he settles back on his heels, still laughing, seeing which with
her toe she completes his overthrow and leaves him in the moss as she
continues unconstrained her grief.

Show Off picks himself up sobered and looks around for other occupation.
I do also view the surroundings. I perceive this building is over the
river. Before I salute Robet, she arises and stamps away.

Passing my retreat I hear her moan:

“You are lost, O my darling.”

Something drops gently upon my hand. I look down to see a round
button-like object attached to a line that goes up above.

I raise it, when the string sways out from the tree, free from aught
else but the sky.

I feel in my hand a signal, which I recognize. By my knowledge of Arc as
a “hello,” which I answer back. Then comes a communication:

“I am away up in the sky. Who are you?”

Thinking some trick is being played on me I answer:

“Robet.”

Ting a ling ling. They are happy. (Can it be the Traveler?)

Hoping so, I telephone on the line, in Robet’s voice:

“It is my darling!”

I hear back: “It is sounding from the clouds in accents of her voice. O,
clouds, speak again.”

“When will my darling come again?”

“Do you want me, dear? I will wander no more. But it is fine up here. I
go like light. Thoughts cannot travel faster.”

“My darling is like a spirit of air for speed.”

“I will speed to you, dear.”

“His daughter pines for him.”

“Not her.”

“My heart is full of love. This winter I will marry him and journey with
him in the famous sky. Here are ten thousand kisses to last till winter
shall bring him home.”

“My coach frets to be going. But this winter it shall stop for a
season.”

The button darts upward.

Robet—I say in my mind—weep not. There are fairies around. I look up to
see Show Off in front of me.

“What,” he says, “come to school?”

“Yes,” I answer vaguely, seeing no sign of such institution.

He slides back of me in the foliage, a door revealing a busy scene:

Men, women and children are scattered about, variously occupied. Some
are writing upon sheets of transparent material. The pictured script,
which subjected to a solution, is shrunk to microscopic dimensions.
Other occupations are on each side, extending in a line.

On the farther side of each room are windows looking outside. The school
rooms being divided from the inner halls and libraries by the umbrageous
alley, in which we sit.

Wheeling my seat ahead (which goes, tree and all, as though one piece on
rollers) Show Off explains:

“This school or fair, as Charley calls it, (would I could take it home
for exhibition) is devoted to silk.”

I see in process of construction pictures, screens, garments, carpets
(which I had taken for sward) with American articles devised from
Charley’s lectures. These last are brought out to me for my benefit. A
worker hands me a glass of water, which another puts a bouquet of
flowers into, on which lights a canary and sings a song, as a fuzzy dog
puts up his paws at my side. All are silk.

Down spinning comes a spider. I did not like its looks. It opens its
mouth saying:

“Come into my parlor.”

I turn away saying: “No American parlor this, but fairyland, sung of
poets and imagined in spirit by painters. As I become absent-minded,
Show Off closes the doors and leaves me alone.”

I look straight up into the sky, thinking of the button, when an odd
little sky speck attracts my inquisitiveness, for it is growing larger
very last, as it no doubt is coming down very fast. Strangely heavy for
a fleecy cloud, which it looks to be. Down to the opening, through to
the tower top it stops by my side. The cloud is off, as out steps father
and Saucy, and I spring convulsively to my feet off the rock I had
leaned on in case.

Holding my hands together Mae quiets my nerves.

“O, auntie,” with glowing cheeks and shining eyes of sky angel. “Did you
not know they do this here? See, this is the string of the cloud balloon
I hold.”

“But Mae, the Traveler is up there and is not friendly.”

“O, Grandpa has been civilizing him, so I have asked him to the
wedding.”

“How is that?”

“Serpenta is his niece, so he might as well come and be reconciled.
Won’t there be an explosive,” she adds gleefully.

“Now Grandpa and Auntie,” as she sits down by my side, “take up your
bill of fare, and while we dine, we will talk of going home.”

A table in our midst has been spread, a la American.

“Bill of fare?” I query.

“Yes, that menu by your plate.”

I had taken it for a leaf decoration. It is named at the top _A Leaf
From Webster_. Webster’s dictionary? It is the first page of S as that
initial heads each dish. Sabine-fish, sacar-game, saccharine-pastry,
sack-drink.

Serpenta comes in with Show Off behind her and sits up opposite. As we
part the fish with our knives and forks, so new to them, they are
delighted and get us to do theirs.

As Saucy blandly puts a piece in her mouth with her fork, they rush to
her, thinking her mouth speared. She drops the fork.

In father’s hand is so familiar shape of white China cup and filling
also. I hastily taste my own. It is “ice cream,” the white cup a
macaroon.

But as the spoon, with which I tasted, goes into my mouth, they rush to
me, thinking it strained. We drop now our spoon and take up the sack,
which is in Arc cups shaped like bottles, which are gum paste.

To cover our discomfiture, we arise in unison, touch and drink boon
fashion. When boom, crack, roar, the ground beneath us shakes.

The two opposite, natives here, spring to their feet with distending
eyes, standing transfixed as the cracking roar continues, listening to
the approach of a sucking, whistling sound, which long drawn, lessens
and gradually disappears when they recover composure.

My first idea of the panic was that it was God’s displeasure of our
dissipation. Quickly banishing this I recognized the crackling as that
of ice, which denoted the real danger. The sucking sound was so like
water, which, escaping to the river, had ended the commotion. Ah Arc!
Highest of all! Yet is death ever beneath!

Resuming our seats I bethink me of Saucy’s proposition:

“Going home, Saucy?”

“Yes, to America.”

“To America!” I echo again.

“Yes, will this be an easy way?” getting up and coming to take hold of
me, as though I was to be scared.

“An easy way.” I cannot think what she is driving at, when it comes out.

“Yes, the way we are sailing in the air.”

I clutch the rock (as did Fitz James) muttering as did he, “This rock
shall fly from its firm base, as soon as I.”

But too late, the rock is flying with me on it through the air in
combination of the rest on the plot. Tower and schools are left behind,
so quick done I had been unobservant.

By effort accepting the situation, I turn to Show Off, jocularly:

“How far can this go?” in reference to the proposition.

“To the sun, if you want a scorcher,” he answers with assurance.

“I have been studying, Auntie.” She studying, “We can place relays of
these over the border.”

“But the compass?” I interrupt.

“We will measure straight between each relay until the compass rights
itself,” sitting down herself contentedly.

I get up and choke her with a hug. “You blessed child, given me a way to
get home.”

I forgive her immediately and all the rest for the dreadful scares I
have been victim. I think of home scenes, so far away, and compare with
these of this delightful land. I must confess, I prefer as magnificence,
these. But the blessed mascot has studied how to get home.

It being possible, my full spirits rebound.

“Next spring will do to go,” I say, anxious now to stay, where before I
was anxious to go—now that I could.

The next day I am so light of heart and light of step, I take trust that
my old statue heaviness cannot again weigh me down.

Initiated to the schools, as the place where all work, (Arc life above,
mostly a recreation) I become alert to choose an industry. Saucy
arriving, takes from her pocket silk and needle, deftly fashions a
butterfly, which she affixes, waving to my shoulder. As I ask: “What can
I do?”

“O, you can print the books you write, you know. And Charley,” laughing,
“can paint.”

The days fly swiftly by. The sun has rounded down toward the horizon.
Twilight is our only day. Clouds skim the blue sky. Cream foam in
portend of storm, driving us to the warmth of the towers that are now
getting a layer of arctic protection.

Bright days only let us out to tour the cities, making the round trip
roundly. Each tour develops a new specialty, marvelous and absorbing our
interest. Though the upper sky, out of the crevasse, is getting a soft
black color, still the air around has a light of its own that is not
artificial in any sense—proceeding from the center aurora, that is
becoming oftener in action. Scanning it closely one day, as I am
returning home, I mistake the door and curiously look around at the
grand hall in which I find myself.

The walls, like all others, shining and sparkling, are here, strangely
glimmering and glinting, quite dazing my eyes.

I ask a slim little Arc maid I see walking about in absorbed fashion,
“What place is this?”

“Holy Hall,” is her impressive reply.

“Then you have a church after all. Do you pray to God?”

“Not in words as you. God knows before.”

“Then what is Holy Hall?” I persist.

“Where people are holy.”

“O, what makes it glisten so?”

“It holy spiritualizes all within.”

“Then no evil spirits can come to this communion of saints.” Quite
bestows comfort and relief.

The walls are landscaped in crackled scenery, and at intervals against
their centers aloft, are fastened most gorgeous state chairs, supported
by brackets that have a separate and more distinct gleam. I turn again
quickly, awed to inquire. I look into the face of Savant, who is
intently regarding my expression.

“The chairs,” I say, “are they alive?”

“Yes,” he replies, “to make the dead alive, who will come to sit in
them.”

“O, is this where Roban saw the scientific angel?”

I rigidly regard the one nearest to me to see it being occupied by a
familiar face and form. (Familiar by engraving). “It is _George
Washington_.”

A hand appears from the air, resting on his arm, which slowly
materializes the form to which it is attached.

I open my mouth in awe, for I recognize again President Lincoln—the
_martyr_, as joining him in touch appear his generals. My memory goes
back to that struggle of civil strength, at the sight.

Then I strive to awaken myself, as though I must have fallen strangely
asleep, scarcely believing the illusion before me.

Not crediting the tales of spiritualist societies, I cannot likewise
discredit the Bible records. Knowing I have not, as likely the excellent
souls in Arc, have not, in wantonness profanely tempted this array, I,
in deference to the manifestation, wait resignedly. I clasp my hands in
added awe as Savant touches me to inquire:

“Who are they?”

“Upon the other side of our country’s father has appeared. Ah, who?
Jefferson Davis and his gray-clad staff.”

I wring my hands as Savant touches me again.

“There was a war,” I gasp. “Do they hear? They look down and smile at
me, even the rebel, at whom I shake my finger.”

“You caused it, to be a President. You tried to cut a great country in
two; deluging it in blood.”

In my electric state I see the root of the real cause—ambition of
earthly state. The root of evil that grew to a tree of distrust of
brother to brother. Each aroused in strength of pride to combat of their
separate interests.

He replies resignedly. “I did not want war. It conquered back the
Union.”

The father hastily spreads his hands in benediction. So like prayer I
ask:

“Do _you_ go to _see God_ in _spirit_ form?”

Then dropping on my knees, “O tell me of Jesus.”

“It was my republic. The kingdom of God to men—the people. He taught to
pray for.”

“How could you be ‘Our Father’ before you were born?”

“The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.”

“You, the Father of Jesus, how is He the son of God?”

“As such to teach republic love. I will ask my pastor.”

“Will He come at the end of the second millennium in body form and
bestow body life on good spirits to that end preserved?” I, endeavoring
to prophecy.

“It will be evolved scientifically to all,” astounds me.

“Good and bad, where will be room for them?” skeptic.

“Some will dwell in air; O, in cloud balloons.”

“Will they eat and work as they do now?”

“The same.”

“Must they live and cannot die?”

“Live or die as they do choose?”

“Have war?”

“There will be universal peace in a universal republic,” as one foot
steps forward to disappear.

I hurry to ask: “Was Jesus the Christ of the Jews?”

“The seed of Abraham in which all nations should be blessed.”

“What about David’s throne?”

“The promise was to Abraham, not to David. The latter’s throne will be
raised to a republic.”

“Was the spirit of republic first of Jesus?”

“From the beginning of God.”

As a foot disappears. “Will woman equalize in its rule, Presidentess as
of God?”

“That is the universal rule.”

Another foot starts, I haste again. “Who is the devil?” But he is gone
too quick. And around about me come living people; friends at home.

“Can the living come?” I ask Savant, who is still near.

“In spirit form just the same.”

I talk to them; they to me, the news of each. We walk about and discuss
the people and the occasion, quite content in each other’s society.

In the center of the room, upon a pedestal are Serpenta and Show Off. I
do believe they have been married, for this has been the assembly. We
arrive at their side with loving wishes, in time to see a chamois
garlanded close by. We hear the word “initiation” and stuff our mouths
at its American misapplication.

The crowd are gone and spirit friends. I say to Saucy:

“Let’s go to bed,” who replies:

“I have just woke up. I went in dream to see Mamma. She was crying. I
put my arm around her neck and she leaned her head on me and was
comforted. I told her I would come home in a cloud, which scared her so,
I laughed out loud. She heard, and looked about the room, then took her
work. I think I will go every night to see her.”

My father is brushing by my arm. I say:

“O, what do you think, I saw my little children who are dead, in dear
mother’s care. They have been growing by my side. I knew them plainly
and realize I have oft consciously caressed them. What is the element
producing the phenomena?”

“It is positive electricity confined by glass. The balloons of clouds
are thus manipulated and strong to carry a number of people. I am
studying how constructed, to use them in our return.”

I go out hastily into the night, the long night of this city. My mind so
wrought upon by home people I look up at the velvet black sky, and pray:

                    Silent night! Above me
                    Thy sublimity far reaching
                    Opens to Omniscience!
                    Specks are thy sun system
                    In dotted plain!
                    Mindful of human pain—
                    Communest thou peace?
                    Longing to leave this place.
                    Great everywhere, guide me,
                    Guiding me here, guide me hence.
                    I await thy signal
                    In calm acceptance.

What? A Crown of Radiance arisen there. A solemn bell tolls forth;
streams of light are shed around in spectrum sparks; the river banks are
deserted; the towers tenantless, as each citizen hastens to the inner
aisles of verdure depths, where issues shadowed fire.

I keep pace with Savant, whom first I see and reach with him an inner
balcony that is endless in curving ring each side, making amphitheater
around the city. The center is a great open rotunda, of fields, miles
broad, of shaking ice. A flame of gold supplying the Crown above ascends
out of a round cavernous crater in the center.

Savant seats himself on a raised broad platform, commanding a view of
the whole scene. I unconsciously sit beside him. Beneath our feet I see
a rug of “hel”iotrope. (NOTE. The quotation marks in the flowers give a
double meaning. A “hel” meaning heel on the rug.) A hedge of
“wall”flower hems us in from a row of poplar tree columns. Before us on
a table is spread a set of “China” asters under a canopy of blue iris
(flag). As Canterbury “bells” ring forth, we begin a feast.

The centerpiece is a large “sweet-pea”cock, flanked by “chick”weed on
each side, “butter”cup, “pica”lily and “pitcher”plant have places.

Alarm at my heart at the solemn tolling bell had hastened my feet
hither. To find a scenic banquet is somewhat puzzling. The usual
ascending glow, with its usual reversal of shadows, is augmented by the
added source, in new portraiture, adding to the picturesqueness of the
occasion. Taught at home that all people without Christ are barbaric, I
was expecting an abject worship of the disturbed elements. Instead I am
pleased as surprised to find it an inspiration of interest only.

I look to get their knowledge of the phenomena. For its solution I have
left home and risked my life. That they fear it not, is evident. Instead
they love and reverence its benefaction to them—lighting and warming
their homes all winter; their winter daylight—as Roban said, in their
interior winter quarters. Unusually quiet this season so far, but this
is to outdo all, make up for lost time, unprecedented in grandeur. That
they understand it I am solicitous to know. I could catch a word now and
then. I could understand in the voluble tonic, stream of talk I read
from their gestures and expressive faces some meaning of their patriotic
interest.

The morning banquet at an end, all sit back in their seats and look at
Savant as though some special ceremony is to ensue. Thoroughly excited,
I see him hold a state book and read:

“We receive again God’s sign of the disturbance of aurora—our beautiful
mother in the earth—who gathers us each winter around her fireside to
comfort us in its warm beams.”

“What is aurora?”

“Yearly we ask this question. None have answered us. We yearly invite
our subjects to explore her confines, whence she lights her beacon. We
invite now.”

“Who will descend the Glory Hall to pay devoirs to the country’s
goddess.”

I had followed him quite plainly. When he stopped, in the silence that
followed a great light filled my eyes, as the idea that engendered it
filled my mind.

I a“rose” in my seat, which latter is a rose vine—insignia of
aurora—which word I hear in suppressed intuition in application to
myself as a branch of bloom settles on my head wreath-like. Raising my
hands in acceptance of the undertaking, they look calmly at me,
incredulous, when I speak in full earnest tones:

“I will go, God of the universe, Creator of aurora has led me hither for
that purpose.”

Sitting again, they are convinced, and much upset in their calculations,
that I so small should answer the great request.

In their surprise I get full revenge of all I have been subject of so
long.

Now, all look at Savant, which occasions me to do the same. The
phenomenal wave of thought, individual to him, wraps his countenance in
stormy struggle. He speaks:

“We cannot accept, in duty to guest and stranger.” But I gesture firmly.

Again he is submerged with greater struggles to exhaustion of his great
strength, when an enduring calm arises in his face, like a smiling
island in a hurricane tossed sea. Waving his hands, as I had done, he
speaks:

“I will take you.”

All arise in consternation and press about us. Mae, wild-eyed, shakes me
back and forth. Father buries his face in his hands. Roba and Charley
only, clap their hands. The tide now turns in our favor; all is pleasant
bustle. The tender social visiting of their usual tenor and normal habit
is changed to agitation in concocting a mode of preparation to ensure
our safety, resulting in an elaborate scheme of training, to which we
are subjected, separately, next day.

Bandaged securely we are rolled about and tossed. Suspended to a long
rope we are dangled in mid air, swung in a circle with increasing speed.
Hands are waved before us, jumping and shouting indulged in to harden
our nerves. Left alone, click, the floor beneath is loosening,
revolving, opening, black darkness ensues, then lights glimmer around;
bells, whistles and reverberations fill all the air with din, followed
by melody so low as scarcely to be heard—the music of the spheres.

This has taken days, as it has been necessary to repeat each lesson,
over and over. Quite unnecessary, I think, is so much pains of
preparation.

But at last the day is appointed, as all things are ready.

The city is astir from center to circumference. We are on view in
Central Hall. The masses pass by us in solemn file to take leave of us,
as of their dead. I feel to smile, but like the dead am turned to stone.

We next are placed in a round crystal globe receptacle. Packed in,
Savant’s unique instruments to his hand. Fluid food to our mouths
through a tube. Condensed air to our nostrils. We are locked in by
Savant.

Now carried out on a long platform pier toward the abyss and placed upon
the top of a huge iceberg mass—as weight to sink us.

Dynamite hurls us out over fields and blocks of surging ice, lifting us
into the rose enfolding pit. My sole experience is precipitation.
Conscious of swift descent, unattended by jar, thrilled to the center of
my being, I realize my position.

Readers, what is to ensue, is the special key to the phenomena of
Astronomy. For the contents of the next few pages, I have written this
story.

I am not the first who has thought the earth to be hollow, and entered
at the Arctics. Also that a rolling fire, and open sea, are within. That
I _define_ this fire, and its _safe control_, thereby discovering the
_secret_ of our planet, and its object in the solar system, is the first
time such definition has been given ever. Is of such high importance I
deem it my solemn duty to publish it.

Adding a relevant definition of the Sun, and other sky objects, is but
following out the line, struck by the first keynote.

In comparison with the present indefinite theory, this illustration far
exceeds it in practical demonstration—ever satisfactory to truthful
students.

Shelly in the time of Byron voiced this promise of the Arctics.

Poets have sung of its unknown city.

Capital and life have ever embarked for its discovery.

The smoke has cleared, leaving a steady moonlight, brightness
intensified. I think to look below and see there a moon, round and
glistening, many miles in width, its grandeur startling. Transfixed, I
see it grow, as it is plainly coming up higher. To relieve my eyes I
look to one side to see its appurtenances, only to find none. The sides
of the cavern are far away and undiscernible. I am puzzled. Resolving to
understand this unexpected bearing, I look first at my watch. A new
puzzle is on its face. Its calendar declares the passage of days since I
have been here. I turn square to the beautiful moon beneath me and
bravely steady my understanding, for a queer unrest sensation is trying
to creep on me.

Though I throw it off, in its terrifying aspect, yet it wraps me round
and permeates my consciousness. That this moon, now so quiet and
glittering, is not only the fire producing the Aurora smoke, but
something more. The painful solicitude of Arc people at letting me do
this daring act, that to me looked like mockery, is demonstrative of
their better understanding. If Savant knew what was to happen, I cannot
say, for I cannot speak to him, nor he to me, nor see each other’s
faces. I am alone with the problem I have put myself in. My old statue
sense upholds me. I lean on it as I place straight the lines of new
knowledge—that the moon I see is not a moon, but the central fire of the
whole earth—the molten mass of astronomical science.

That it does not fill the whole center is second new knowledge, for a
haze of distance is each side and above, denoting far removal of the
earth-crust, egg shell, undiscoverable even by the powerful lens of the
crystal globe around me. Central of the earth, it may be thousands of
miles below, though slowly growing. My strained eyes take its impress on
their inner orbs. Wherever I look it is there. I settle bravely to scan
it, enchanted. A new phase comes over it. A flame column is rearing;
breaks and sparks fly upward as coals snap outward. Should the latter
hit the crust, so far away, it would stir it somewhat, giving the
outward inhabitants a shock of earthquake. I have it—this is the cause
of earthquakes. Third new knowledge.

Nearer to the flame that now rolls back and forth as if to engulf us, it
bends downward on each side as if the space around it were also below
it. Thus have I seen our hall lamp do at home when disturbed by air
currents.

Lamp! Lamp! Is the earth a lamp?

Before me is the key note.

Hiss, crack! It is our life preserver—the iceberg beneath us. Melted to
vapor it will ascend and carry our globe to Arc again.

Listening with wildly beating heart in intense suspense, I become
unconscious as fiery serpents twine beneath me.

At last recovered I look again; but no longer there. Ah, above? Have we
passed it?

Below it and still descending. I lean heavily and wholly on my statue.
The days make no impress on me. Not even when I see the sky out of
southern zone. Coldly viewing the Southern Cross Constellation of sun
stars, the planet Mercury comes between, taking on a peculiar distinct
phase. I sluggishly remember that in a mine the planets are seen thus at
noon-day. Ah! is the earth’s center to be a mine to me?

My eyes become exhilarant as I quickly investigate. I can see its
(Mercury’s) rivers, mountains plainly. I can see into it. As I get
excited, I see an inside flaming fire, as earth’s. Then it is—yes, a
lamp, also.

The planets lamps? Where are their chimneys? I inspect again. There
certainly is no chimney to guard the draught. I will study. Oh, why did
I not notice before, it is more like a Chinese lantern—candle inside,
colored shade outside.

I look in ecstasy for days. It is, as is our dear mother earth, a
beautiful Japanese lantern; made by Deity’s hand to revolve around the
glowing sun.

A sun ray spectrums the interior of earth. O, beam alive with electric,
spirit intelligence, give me a sign. The sun itself comes. My eye, on
fire, looks into its soul. O, sun, what art thou? Worshiped by some as
God, by all as a great life giver. Ages past and future will you roll,
unguided by man.

I am now so hot I wonder if I have partly warmed the inside of my statue
being, (so wholly benumbed I became at the knowledge of passing below
the earth’s center, inside light—losing all shadow of hope of seeing Arc
again—that my marble state was more than ever marbleized). Now that I am
treated, in lieu of home, to new explanations of past astronomical
phenomena, is some recompense to my constitutionally enthusiastic mind.

Holding down an equally strong impulse to desire to tell this new
acquisition, I let it unfold to myself to warm me under my marble
shield. What follows fast? Vision upon vision is enlarging my interior
sense of human life, until my outside is only cold. My whole inner is
seething in ardor until my eyes break through the statue thrall. Too
hasty—the light blinds me. I close them impatiently; open slowly.

Is the sun a China lamp? O, no, no; but an American electric arc light.
I hurrah unrestrainedly!

Around it dance its gay planets as it sits and beams warmly upon their
atlas garniture—a round crystal-globed lamp. I see a marking on the
disc. Does it designate a disturbance within? It grows and changes.
Would that some astronomer were here. The globe in which I sit is steady
in its motion, but the marking on the sun changes oft. I look up toward
the earth flame to see coming from its side more coals and smoke; also
so far one side as to clear its blaze safely, is a huge mass—yes,
ice—coming swiftly directly over me. Having collected all this hard
winter, it has rolled over the edge of Arc to complete my destruction
for my daring temerity. Resolving to retain consciousness, I look
downward at the sun spot. It has changed; is changing, as does the
ice-mass above me. Can that mass, in eclipse from the light above, be
the spot? I believe it is, and that it will now strike us.

Hitting only on the edge of our anchor, ice, it spins the globe off into
space, over and over, vapor spouts adhering. But I have seen behind us a
slim stationary object. Is it? Oh, is it a fixture to hold the earth
flame?

Relieved of our heavy ice we gravitate to it (as the ice-mass
evaporates, filling the interior with Aurora prisms. These escaping at
both northern and southern zone outlet, are certain proof of the
attending phenomena).

Sliding along its length we curve toward the side of the earth which I
shall hope soon to see. Coming at last far away, like a cloud, now to
it, we dip down (or the rod fixture on which we slide, as though some
inner electric lode drew us).

This quite mysterious direction engages my study as we pass under the
earth-crust, as it, China-lantern transparent like, curves by above us
as if in a rim. I study; why the crust of the earth turns round and
round, and not the rod! Surely no earthly lantern is so elaborately
constructed.

Engaged in study I find myself outside. The rod arises now in height of
location and branches to each side of the crust-rim, fork like.
Extending, we go out, out toward the sun. As we lightly bound hither and
thither, side and about, I catch a backward glance of the continent
America. Tears fill my eyes. As I press them out I see approaching a
white cliff on the rod, covering its width. This side are crowding a
swarm of tiny people absorbed in dislodging a huge boulder of which the
ground is covered. Clinging about them is a semi-transparent vapor that
floats and densifies, collecting over their heads. They jump into the
air, whirl over harlequin like and descend to push again the boulder.

No sign of vegetation; there must be no air. Can the vapor be their
breath? Why does it not float away? In the globe I have tubes to my nose
that supply my breath.

The little fairies, are they (I pinch myself) getting into mischief? An
adult makes peace by administering sharp pinches. As one moves its mouth
to howl, I do too, but cannot make a sound; neither does the child who
cries without. I see the reason. A thin filmy gauze surrounds it
confining the vapor breath.

Over goes the boulder lightly as if hollow. Losing its rod gravitation
it flies off toward the earth and disappears (dashing on its surface—an
aerolite).

Ere they select another we enter their midst. Not seeing us within, they
grasp the globe and roll it over. Seeing a debris marring its shining
surface they pound it off. This removed from the fastening Savant swings
it open, Pandora-box-like, as off they rush. Winding carefully his
breath tubes about him, Savant takes tools, solutions, etc., and
stepping out carefully inspects the boulder’s surface. (Are they the
dust on the rod?) Selecting one he quickly works. Indents and excavates
a large round cavity, disclosing a glittering black diamond interior,
disappearing inside as he works. I, curiously steer the globe to the
entrance. The inside smooth he places a block in the center, obvious as
rest to the globe which I steer to and stop on, seeing myself an equal
distance from the interior sides. Satisfied, he proceeds to throw a
solution over the latter, which brings out a picture or reflection from
the globe-disc, camera-like. Is the picture the interior of the earth? I
scan it curiously.

After the ice border (around the north pole) land with one only
vegetation, a white cactus. White is the color of the whole inside
except some blackened spots. The cactus skin is clothing of a people who
appear, who eat the pulp and work the thorns into houses and into ships
as water, first shallow, deeper grows; and again into forts upon the
cacti brunches growing up out of the water, thorn protected from sea
monsters. Then these last range alone.

A great blur where we passed the light, more sea includes the lower
half.

I exclaim to myself in bitter mood, is this all!

I am quite disenchanted. Is this our brother earth man? So flat; more
wide than tall, who cannot lift his feet on account of his centrifugal
location; thorn artists; skewering hair, umbrella like. Nesting on trees
as high as Jack’s beanstalk. A shade outside draws us hastily there. How
came this emerald lawn with ruby roses, sapphire lilies, made of the gem
rock centers.

The shade increasing relieves my eyes to see distinctly. As the tiny
artists finish their work by sprinkling the sparkling dust over
themselves and resume their jubilee racket. Suddenly I get an odd sense
that they are different from ordinary human beings. Grace in every
motion. Fair flowing hair; deep-dell gray eyes are of plain human being
species. Still I notice strongly a difference as they gather now and
hurriedly consult. Children and adults. Are the latter all mothers or
fathers? I cannot tell.

Before solution dawns I look up and find the moon is approaching close
over. Is it whence the unique mites have their origin?

Still in the globe, my attention turns wholly to it, for the globe-lense
shows it distinctly enough to read its surface. Its mountains, valleys,
and—yes, certainly, human cities grow upon my vision. So interested am
I, I forget to look for appurtenances or attachment fixtures, in my new
custom of practical demonstration.

As I get an important discovery of inventive construction in a certain
locality straight in my mind, it is almost knocked out, as now, directly
over, I perceive a central light inside the satellite. It is a
taper-kind and in disturbance. A burst of blackness drops from it and
down toward me. Keenly alarmed, the tots are more so, as they, run and
fall down and dig faces and hands beneath the boulder debris.

As trembling thus they lay, I get another impress of them which suddenly
takes definite form. The solution is present. The father and mother,
before mysterious, are also present. What is quite astonishing, these
two are one human being. Uncanny sense gives way to delight at the
vision of strength and dignity, so masculine; enhanced by grace and
tenderness, so feminine.

I feel to clap my hands, but the inky blackness is coming down so fast I
look to it. Wavering white spots are on it; reflections of the white
cliffs below. The forks of the rod are plain and take on a familiar
contour. Contour of the Milky Way. Is _that_ a mirage of this rod on
night sky?

The cloud falls and fells Savant too, nearly breaking the globe, as it
splashes upon the nearest white cliff. The air now clears and cools as
the deposit whitens, emitting a familiar odor. What! wax dropped out of
the moon?

The tots arise and fly with gauzy robes to the cliffside and clamber
excitedly about. Savant arises and enters the globe, proceeding to steer
that way.

As the moon takes a smiling adieu I turn my attention again to it. I
hunt some before I find a faint line, far away attached to the
earth-rim, obviously its fixture. Simple but inexplicable in action.
Though an electric connection in the rim may turn the earth-crust it
would not also turn the moon, as the latter’s motion is monthly, not
daily.

Unable to solve this I complete my former broken discovery that the
constructions on it are telescopes. Mining, maybe. Informing its people
of the earth and how to get there.

Approaching the cliff a digging is heard inside. Then breaks out a waxen
aperture, (closed by the splash) and out peeps a tiny head. We follow
the rest, unseen, into the inner court of their mountain lodge.

Wax-carved alcoves, cloud styles, line a large area open in the center
thinly to the sky. In one a tiny table holds tiny plates of brittle
make. In them, what? A giant mosquito trapped in the outer wax, its
denuded wings wrapping the imp robbers. Another alcove in high cloud has
a choir, lace draped and seated. I recollect the mist people.

In the center of the sward plaza, or esplanade, is a circular fountain,
enclosing within its circular wall of water a dell or green glen.
Covering our top, we steer through the fountain side and to it.
Discovering ourselves to the others, who scurry angrily behind us, we
descend the dell, sloping down like a funnel, to find it shortly cut
off. But lower down—ground again. While gazing at the latter a sensation
strangely affects me, that it is moving——moving slowly by.

What is it? In the fixture—lubricated by the fountain in each white
cliff (cooling the wax), moving as does the earth-crust. We are both
lost in study.

The tiny fiends’ anger culminates, as altogether they give the globe a
sudden push. That taking Savant unawares, it is precipitated through the
funnel and to the moving ground below. Electric tremors shake us up,
but, insulated, our globe survives, and passes on the ground motor out
of sight of the enemies above. A signal from Savant, but e’er I look
ahead, a cake of wax drops upon my lap. I look up and see the wee gnomes
above, clinging like fireflies to the ceiling. Their fun is shortened,
though, as one accidentally, also drops, landing safely in the cake of
wax. Zip, down comes a gauze ribbon, up which goes the little gnome too
frightened to fly.

Breaking up the cake, I see in it a mould of the harlequin form, which I
proceed to restore and dress, to his consternation. My attention thus
diverted sideways is attracted by the width of the cavern. The cause
soon obvious. It contains other motor ground beds. The twin of this on
which we lazily ride is close by, but moving in an opposite direction,
like a band reaching out and returning. Does it contact with the
earth-crust, and turn it in daily curve? Then what do two others, on
each side of these, farther out, but opposite, also, and smaller in
size, turn—more slowly turn? Is it the band of the fixture of the moon,
_attached to the earth-crust rim_?

I now look ahead—in my head—a sun—earth and moon. What next?

The tube “O! O!” is a telescope: greater than that of earth center; as
so much longer. Shall I see God?

No, only a comet! “What art thou—a sky steamboat, or a torch flambeau?
If the latter, then is the universe a _campaign, illumination,
ratification_? And hast thou a human hearer on mighty sidereal parade?”

A living being is by it. (Oh, only a babe chub swinging in the tube.)

It is gone, and we too are going out.

Globe protected from the dazzling light, we look around and see a
slow-going meteor—the rest had flew so fast, we had not time to read
them.

This is so like our globe in which we ride. I cry, “Is _this_ a sky
meteor? This our globe?”

Answering not, Savant claps his bands, a reverberating crackling
following. The other slops and turns our way. In it, as Engineer, sits
the Traveler, at whom I will scowl no more, for by his side is Robet, in
bridal phase.

Wuu, wu, w——

“What big, round eyes.”

I look around me, as I lay in my hammock on my little porch. Directly in
front of me is Saucy, a grown-up young lady, as genial and ingenuous as
ever.

“Now you are really awake, I will tell you what you have been doing
while you were asleep. When I found you here and began slowly swinging
you, you sang out: ‘Give me a butterfly’s wing.’”

When I fanned you, you groaned, “Lost, lost, oh, the ice.”

“Then Charley came.” (I see him, laughing behind a vine); “then talked
gibberish to you, to see if you were asleep. You commenced making signs
with your hands. Then slept soundly for a long time.

“Getting restless you held to the hammock sides, as if you felt to be
falling.

“A branch of wistaria brushing your cheek, you grasped and began eating
it. So I laid a banana on your hand, which you threw off as if it were a
snake and bit you. Bernard (the dog) licked your hand, when you fainted
clear away. To restore you, we shook the hammock. You then made your
feet go as in dancing, ending as in prayer.

“Then you opened your eyes and looked straight ahead for a long time.
Charley got a glass of water and sprinkled your face. Dropping the glass
on the stand, you spoke in absorbed fashion, ‘Meteor,’ then awoke.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

A dream! Only a dream! It was more—it was a grand inspiration. I will
write it all down.

The beautiful coach, with sail wings, the sea and ice tour. The city of
Arc, city of Zion! The marvels of perpetual amusements, science and
spiritism—of God(?).

Going down the earth’s center—the awed terror. Seeing into the planets—I
did, too, I know I did.

I will write it all out.

I have spoken aloud my dream, to two very intent listeners, one of whom
is convulsed anew. “A China-lantern”—will he never stop laughing. The
other, “all right, auntie. You have got it right, and, if I mistake not,
some other things. Though seen in a dream, it is not the less valuable
tour, sought for ages. But the ancients did not have arc-light suns, to
see their lanterns by, as do we. But why is the decoration set so far
apart, unlike ours, that are close lantern-hung?”

“Oh, I can answer that,” says Charley. “The design is but in outline. We
will some day catch a meteor, and go to inspect it closer.”

                       [Illustration: Decoration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------



 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was corrected.
    ○ Unbalanced quotation marks were left as the author intended.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.
    ○ Text in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_).





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Arqtiq, by Anna Adolph

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ARQTIQ ***

***** This file should be named 56696-0.txt or 56696-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/6/9/56696/

Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, MFR, C. H. Williamson, Duke
University, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

