The Project Gutenberg EBook of Car Pool, by Rosel George Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Car Pool

Author: Rosel George Brown

Release Date: November 9, 2019 [EBook #60653]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAR POOL ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                               car pool

                         By ROSEL GEORGE BROWN

                    _Certainly alien children ought
                   to be fed ... but to human kids?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, July 1959.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Happy birthday to _you_," we all sang, except Gail, of course, who was
still screaming, though not as loud.

"Well, now," I said jovially, glancing nervously about at the other air
traffic, "what else can we all sing?" The singing seemed to be working
nicely. They had stopped swatting each other with their lunch boxes and
my experienced ear told me Gail was by this time forcing herself to
scream. This should be the prelude to giving up and enjoying herself.

"_Boing_ down in Texas in eighteen-ninety," Billy began, "Davy, _Davy_
Eisenhower...."

"A-B-_C-D_-E--" sang Jacob.

"Dere was a little 'elicopter red and blue," Meli chirped, "flew along
de air-ways--"

The rest came through unidentifiably.

"Ba-ba-ba," said a faint voice. Gail had given up. I longed for ears
in the back of my head because victory was mine and all I needed to do
was reinforce it with a little friendly conversation.

"Yes, dear?" I asked her encouragingly.

"Ba-ba-ba," was all I could make out.

"Yes, indeed. That Gail _likes_ to go to Playplace."

"Ba-ba-ba!" A little irritable. She was trying to say something
important. "_Ba-ba-ba!_"

I signaled for an emergency hover, turned around and presented my ear.

"Me eat de crus' of de toas'," Gail said. She beamed.

I beamed.

       *       *       *       *       *

We managed to reach Playplace without incident, except for a man who
called me an obscenity. The children and I, however, called him a
great, big alligator head and on the whole, I think, we won. After all,
how can a man possibly be right when faced with a woman and eight tiny
children?

I herded the children through the Germ Detection Booth and Gail was
returned to me with an incipient streptococcus infection.

"Couldn't you give her the shot here?" I asked. "I've _just_ got her in
a good mood, and if I have to turn around and take her back home ...
and besides, her mother works. There won't be anyone there."

"Verne, dear, we can't risk giving the shot until the child is
perfectly adjusted to Playplace. You see, she'd connect the pain of
the shot with coming to school and then she might never adjust."
Mrs. Baden managed to give me her entire attention and hold a
two-and-a-half-year-old child on one shoulder and greet each entering
child and break up a fight between two ill-matched four-year-olds, all
at the same time.

"Me stay at school," Gail said resolutely.

There was a scream from the other side of the booth. That was Billy's
best friend. I waited for the other scream. That was Billy.

"Normal aggression," Mrs. Baden said with a smile.

I picked up Gail. Act first, talk later.

"Oh, _there_ she is," Mrs. Baden said, taking my elbow with what could
only be a third hand.

Having heard we'd have a Hiserean child in Billy's group, I managed not
to look surprised.

"Mrs. His-tara, this is Verne Barrat. Her Billy will be in Hi-nin's
group."

I was immediately frozen with indecision. Should I shake hands? Merely
smile? Nod? Her hands looked wavery and boneless. I might injure them
inadvertently.

I settled on a really good smile, all the way back to my bridge. "I am
so delighted to meet you," I said. I felt as though the good will of
the entire World Conference rested on my shoulders.

Her face lighted up with the most sincere look of pleasure I've ever
seen. "I am glad to furnish you this delight," she said, with a good
deal of lisping over the dentals, because Hisereans have fore-shortened
teeth. She embraced me wholeheartedly and gave me a scaly kiss on the
cheek.

My first thought was that I was a success and my second thought
was, Oh, God, what'll happen when Billy gets hold of little Hi-nin?
Hisereans, as I understood it, simply didn't have this "normal
aggression." Indeed, I sometimes have trouble believing it's really
normal.

"I was thinking," Mrs. Baden said, putting down the
two-and-a-half-year-old and plucking a venturesome little girl in Human
Fly Shoes from the side of the building, "that you all might enjoy
having Hi-nin in your car pool."

"Oh, we'd love to," I said eagerly. "We've got five mamas and eight
children already, of course, but I'm sure everyone--"

"It would trouble you!" Mrs. His-tara exclaimed. Her eye stalks
retracted and tears poured down her cheeks. "I do not want to be of
difficulty," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since she had no apparent handkerchief and wore some sort of
permanent-looking native dress, I tore a square out of my paper morning
dress for her.

"You are too good!" she sobbed, fresh tears pouring out.

"No, no. I already tore out two for the children. I always get my
skirts longer in cold weather because children are so careless about
carrying--"

"Then we'll consider the car pool settled?" Mrs. Baden asked, coming in
tactfully.

"Naturally," I said, mentally shredding my previous sentence. "We would
feel so honored to have Hi-nin--"

"Do not _think_ of putting yourself out. We do not have a helicopter,
of course, but Hi-nin and I can so easily walk."

I was rapidly becoming unable to think of anything at all because Gail
was trying to use me for a merry-go-round and I kept switching her from
hand to hand and I could hear her beginning to build up the ba-bas.

"My car pool," I said, "would be terribly sad to think of Hi-nin
walking."

"You would?"

"_Terribly._"

"In such a case--if it will give you pleasure for me to accept?"

"It would," I said fervently, holding Gail under one arm as she was
beginning to kick.

And on the way home all the second thoughts began.

_I_ would be glad to have Hi-nin in the car pool. Four of the other
mamas were like me, amazed that anyone was willing to put up with
her child all the way to and from Playplace. I could count on them to
cooperate. But Gail's mama.... I'd gone to Western State Preparation
for Living with Regina Raymond Crowley.

I landed on the Crowley home and tooted for five minutes before I
remembered that Regina was at work.

"_Ma_-ma!" Gail began.

"Wouldn't you like to come to Verne's house," I asked, "and we can call
up your mama?"

"No." Well, I asked, didn't I?

I was carrying Gail down the steps from my roof when I bumped
unexpectedly into Clay.

"What is that!" he exclaimed, and Gail became again flying blonde hair
and kicking feet.

"Regina's child," I said. "What are you doing home?"

"Accountant sent me back. Twenty-five and a half hours is the maximum
this week. Good thing, too. I've got a headache." He eyed Gail
meaningfully. She was obviously not the sort of thing the doctor orders
for a headache.

"I can't help it, honey," I said, sitting down on a step to tear
another handkerchief square from my skirt. "I'm going to call Regina at
work now."

"Don't you have a chairman to take care of things like that?"

"I am the chairman," I said proudly.

"Why in heaven's name did you let yourself get roped into something
like that?"

"I was _selected_ by Mrs. Baden!"

"Obscenity," said Clay. It is his privilege, of course, to use this
word.

       *       *       *       *       *

The arty little store where Regina works has a telephane as well as a
telephone, and in color, at that. So I could see Regina in full color,
taking her own good time about switching on the sound. She switched on
as a sort of afterthought and tilted her nose at me. I don't suppose
she can really tilt her nose up and down, but she always gives that
impression.

"Gail has an incipient streptococcus infection," I said. "They sent her
home."

"_Ma_-ma!" Gail cried.

"Why didn't they give her a shot there? That's what they did with my
niece last year."

I explained why not.

Regina sighed resignedly. "Verne, people can talk you into anything.
There are times when you have to be firm. I work, girl. That's why I
put Gail in Playplace. I can't leave here until twelve o'clock."

"But what'll I do with Gail?"

"Take her back. Or you keep her until I get home. Sorry, Verne, but you
got yourself into this."

I switched off, furious.

Then I remembered Hi-nin. I couldn't be furious. I was going to have to
get Regina's cooperation.

I picked up Gail and went into the bedroom. "I do not dislike Regina
Crowley," I wrote with black crayola on a piece of note paper. I
stuck it into a crevice of my mirror and gave Gail my bare-shoulder
decorations to play with while I concentrated on thinking up reasons
why I should not dislike Regina Crowley.

"I do," Clay said, sneaking up so quietly I jumped two feet.

"So do I," I said, gazing wearily at my note. "But I have to have her
in a good mood. You see, there's this Hiserean child and since I'm
chairman of the car pool, I have to--"

"_Don't_ tell me about it," Clay said. "My advice to you is get
elephantiasis of your steering foot and give the whole thing up now."
He glanced meaningfully at Gail, who couldn't possibly be bothering
him. She was playing quietly on the floor, pulling the suction disks
off my jewelry and sticking them on her legs.

When I finally got Gail home, she sped into her mother's arms and I
couldn't help being a little irritated because I had been practically
swinging from the ceiling dust controls to ingratiate myself, and her
mama just said, "Oh, hi," and Gail was satisfied.

"By the way," I said, watching Regina hang up her dark blue hand-woven
jacket, "you wouldn't mind picking up an extra child tomorrow, would
you?"

"Mind! Certainly I mind. I've got as much as I can do with my job and
Gail and eight children in the heli already."

"It's a Hiserean child," I said. "The mother is so lovely, Regina. She
didn't want us to go to any trouble."

"That's fine. Because I'm not going to go to any trouble."

I put my fists behind my back. "Of course I understand, Regina. I think
it's remarkable that you manage to do so much. And keep up with your
art things as you do. But don't you think it would be an interesting
experience to have a Hiserean child in the pool?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Regina pulled off her hand-woven wrap-skirt and I was shocked to see
she wore a real boudoir slip to work.

"Everybody to their own interesting experiences," she said, laughing at
me. This was obviously one of her triple-level remarks.

"De gustibus," I said, to show I know a few arty things myself, "non
disputandum est."

"You have such moments, Verne! Have you ever seen a Hiserean child?"

"I saw one today."

"Well."

"Well?"

"De gustibus, as you said. You know the other children will eat it
alive, don't you? _Your_ child will. Now Gail...."

It's true that Gail never kicks anyone small enough to kick back. It's
also true that Billy bites.

I unclenched my fists and stretched up with a deep breath so as to
relax my stomach and improve my posture.

"Hiserean children," I pointed out, "are going to have to be adjusted
to our society. As I understand it, they're here to stay. Their sun
blew up behind them and personally I think we're lucky they happened to
drift here."

"I don't see why it's so lucky. I wish we'd gotten one of the ships
full of scientific information. Or their top scientists. Or artists,
for that matter. All _we_ got were plain people. If you like to call
them people."

"They're at least educated people with good sense. And we've got their
ship to take apart and learn things from. And their books and, after
all, some music and their gestural art. I should think you artists
would find that real avant garde."

"Just hearing you say it like that is enough to kill Hiserean art."

"Regina, I know you think I'm a prig, but that isn't the point. And if
it matters to you, I'm _not_ a prig."

"Do you wear boudoir slips?" Regina was biting a real smile.

"No, I don't. But I'd like to."

"Then why don't you?"

"Because I put one on once and I thought I looked absolutely
devastating and you know what my husband said?"

"I won't try to guess Clay's bon mot."

"He said, 'What did you put that on for?'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Regina laughed until she popped a snap on her paper house dress. "But
seriously," she said finally, "if he didn't know, why didn't you tell
him?"

"That's not the point. The point is I am not the boudoir-slip type. My
unmentionables are unmentionable for esthetic reasons only."

Regina laughed again. "Really, Verne, you're not half bad when you try."

"If you honestly think I'm not half bad, could you do it just as a
favor to me? Pick up Hi-nin when you have the car pool?"

"The Hiserean child? No."

"Please, Regina. I'd do it _for_ you except that the children would
notice and it would get back to Mrs. His-tara. If there's anything I
could do for you in return--"

"What could you possibly do?"

"I don't know. But I _can't_ go back and tell that dear creature our
car pool doesn't want her."

"_Stop_ looking so intense. That's what keeps you from being the
boudoir-slip type. You always look as though you're going out to break
up a saloon or campaign for better Public Child Protection. The boudoir
slip requires a languorous expression."

"Phooey to looking languorous. And phooey to boudoir slips. I'd wear
diapers to nursery school if you'd change your mind about taking along
Hi-nin."

"Would you wear a boudoir slip?"

"I--hell, yes."

"And nothing else?"

"Only my various means of support. And my respectability."

Regina laughed her tiger-on-the-third-Christian laugh. "What I want to
find out," she said, "is how you manage the respectability bit."

It dawned on me while I was grinding the pepper for Clay's salad that
Regina had explained herself. All of a sudden I saw straight through
her and I wondered why I hadn't seen it before. Regina _envied_ me.

Now on the face of it, that seemed unlikely. But it occurred to me
that Regina's parents had been the poor but honest and uneducated sort
that simply are never asked to chaperone school parties. And the fact
is that they were not what Regina thought of as respectable, though it
never occurred to anyone but her that it mattered. And since all her
culture was acquired after the age of thirteen, she felt it didn't fit
properly and that's why she went out of her way to be arty-arty.

Whereas I took for granted all the things Regina had learned so
painstakingly, and this in turn was what made me so irritatingly
respectable.

As Regina had suggested, perhaps it _is_ the expression on one's face
that makes the difference.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Hey!" a cop yelled, pulling up as close to us as his rotors would
allow. "What the hell?"

"I beg your pardon," I said frigidly. It is very frigid in November if
you are out in a helicopter dressed only in a boudoir slip.

"Look de bleesemans!" Gail cried.

"He might shoot everybody!" Billy warned.

Meli began to cry loudly. "He might _choot_! _Ma_-ma!"

"Pardon me, madam," the cop said, and beat a hasty retreat.

When we landed on Hi-nin's roof, Mrs. His-tara came up with him.
She looked at me sympathetically. "You are perhaps molting, beloved
friend?" Her large eyes retracted and filled with tears. "Such a
season!"

"No--no, dear. Just--getting a little fresh air."

I put Hi-nin on the front seat with me. He gave me a big-eyed,
toothless smile and sat down in perfect quiet, except for the soft,
almost sea sound of his breathing.

It was during one of those brief and infrequent silences we have that I
noticed something was amiss. No sea sound.

I looked around to find Billy's hands around Hi-nin's throat.

"Billy!" I screamed.

"Aw!" he said, and let go.

Hi-nin began to breathe again in a violent, choked way.

"Billy," I said, wondering if I could keep myself from simply throwing
my son out of the helicopter, "Billy...."

"It is nothing, nice mama," Hi-nin said, still choking.

"Billy." I didn't trust myself to speak any further. I reached around
and spanked him until my hand was sore. "If you _ever_ do that again--"

"_Waa!_" Billy bawled. I'm sure he could be heard quite plainly by the
men building the new astronomical station on the Moon.

       *       *       *       *       *

I put Hi-nin on my lap and kept him there. "That's just Billy's way of
making friends," I whispered to him.

Under Billy's leadership, several other children began to cry, and all
in all it was not a well-integrated, love-sharing group that I lifted
down from the heli at Playplace.

"The children always sense it, don't they," Mrs. Baden said with her
gentle smile, "when we don't feel comfortable about a situation?"

"_Comfortable!_" I cried. It seemed to me the day had become blazing
hot and I didn't remember what I was dressed in until I tried to take
off my jacket. "My son is an inhuman monster. He tried to--to--" I
could feel a big sob coming on.

"Bite?" Mrs. Baden supplied helpfully.

"Strangle," I managed to blurt out.

"We'll be especially considerate of Billy today," Mrs. Baden said.
"He'll be feeling guilty and he senses your discomfort about his
aggression."

"_Senses_ it! I all but tore him limb from limb! That dear little
Hiserean child--"

"I do not want to be of difficulty," Hi-nin said, tears pouring out of
those great, big eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tears were pouring out of my small blue eyes by this time and Mr.
Grantham, who brings a set of grandchildren, came by and patted my
shoulder.

"Chin up!" he said. "Eyes front!"

Then he looked at his hand and my recently patted shoulder.

"Oh, excuse me," he said. "Would you like to borrow my jacket?"

I shook my head, acutely aware, suddenly, that Mr. Grantham is not a
doddering old grandfather but a young and handsome man. And all he
thought about my bare shoulder was that it ought to be covered.

"You just run along," Mrs. Baden said. "We'll let Billy strangle the
pneumatic dog and everything will be just fine. Oh, and dear--I don't
know whether you've noticed it--you don't have on a dress."

I went home and sat in front of the mirror feeling miserable in several
different directions. If Regina Raymond Crowley appeared in public
dressed only in a boudoir slip, people would think all sorts of wicked
things. When I appeared in public in a boudoir slip, everybody thought
I was just a little absentminded.

This, I thought, is a hell of a thing to worry about. And then I
thought, Oh, phooey. If even I think I'm respectable, what can I
expect other people to think?

I took down the note on the mirror about Regina. No wonder I didn't
like her! I turned the paper over and wrote "Phooey to me!" with my
eyebrow pencil.

I was still regarding the note and trying to argue myself into a better
mood when Clay came tramping down from work at three o'clock.

"Why are you sitting around in a boudoir slip?" he asked.

"You're a double-dyed louse and a great, big alligator head," I told
him.

"Don't mention it," he said. "Where's Billy?"

"Taking his nap. Tell me the truth, Clay. The absolute truth."

Clay looked at me suspiciously. "I'd planned on a little golf this
afternoon."

"This won't take a minute. I don't ask you things like this all the
time, now do I?"

"I still don't know what you're talking about."

I took a deep breath. "Clay, is there anything about me, anything at
all, that is not respectable?"

"There is _not_," he said.

"Well--I guess that's all there is to it," I sighed. I pulled off my
boudoir slip and got a neat paper one out of the slot. "Anyway," I said
bravely, "boudoir slips have to be laundered."

Clay looked at me curiously for a moment and then said, "This looks
like a good afternoon to go play golf."

"Do you think there's anything not respectable about Regina Crowley?"

"There is _everything_ not respectable about Regina Crowley," Clay said
vehemently.

"You see?"

"Frankly, no."

"Well, do you think her husband uses that tone of voice when he says,
'There is _everything_ respectable about Verne Barrat?'"

"I don't know why he should say that at all."

"She might ask him."

"Darling, you're mad as a hatter," Clay said, kissing me good-by.

"Do you really think so?"

"Of course not," Clay roared as he tramped up the steps to the heli.

       *       *       *       *       *

About nine o'clock the next morning I heard a heli landing on the roof
and I thought, Now who? There was much tooting, and when I went up,
Regina practically threw Hi-nin at me.

"I told you so," she snapped at me. Her face was burning red and she
wasn't bothering to tilt her nose.

"What happened? Why did you bring him back to _me_?"

"His hand," she said, and took off.

Hand? He was holding one hand over the other. No! I grabbed his hands
to see what it was.

One hand had obviously been bitten off at the wrist. He was holding the
wound with the tentacles of his other little boneless hand. There was
very little blood.

"It is as nothing," he said, but when I cradled him in my arms, I could
feel him shaking all over.

"It will grow back," he said.

Would it?

I took him in the heli and held him while I drove. I could feel him
trying to stop himself from shaking, but he couldn't.

"Does it hurt very much?" I asked.

"The pain is small," he said. "It is the fear. The fear is terrible. I
am unable to swallow it."

I was unable to swallow it, too.

"The hand," said Mrs. His-tara without concern, "will grow back. But
the things within my son...." She, too, began to tremble involuntarily.

"Billy," I began, feeling the blood come through my lower lip, "Billy
and I are...." It was too inadequate to say it.

"It was not Billy," Hi-nin said without rancor. "It was Gail."

"Gail! Gail doesn't bite!" But she had, and I broke down and plain
cried.

"Do not trouble yourself," said Mrs. His-tara. "My son receives from
this a wound that does not heal. On Hiserea he would be forever sick,
you understand. On your world, where everyone is born with this open
wound, it will be his protection. So Mrs. Baden warned me and I think
she is wise."

As soon as I got home, I called up Regina. She looked pale and lifeless
against the gaudy, irresponsible objects in the art shop.

"It wasn't my fault," she said quickly. "I can't drive and watch the
children at the same time. I told you the children would eat...." She
stopped, and for the first time I saw Regina really horrified with
herself.

"Nobody said it was your fault. But don't you think you could have
taken Hi-nin home yourself? To show Mrs. His-tara that--I don't know
what it would show."

It reminded me, somehow, of the time Regina stepped on a lizard and
left it in great pain, pulling itself along by its tiny front paws, and
I had said, "Regina, you can't leave that poor thing suffering," and
she had said, "Well, I didn't step on it on purpose," and I had said,
"Somebody's got to kill it now," and she had said, "I've got a class."
I could still feel the crunch of it under my foot as its tiny life went
out.

"Sorry, Verne," she said, "you got yourself into this," and hung up.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Regina called me. "Can you give blood?" she asked.

"Yes," I said. "If I stuff myself, I can get the scales up to a hundred
and ten pounds."

"What type?"

"B. Rh positive."

"Thought you told me that once. Gail is in the hospital. They have to
replace every drop of blood in her body. She may die anyhow."

I thought of the little fluff and squeak that was Gail. I eat de crus'
of de toas'.

"What's the matter with her?" I asked fearfully.

"That damn Hiserean child is _poison_. Gail had a little cut inside her
mouth from where she fell off the slide at school."

"I'll be at the hospital in ten minutes," I said, and hung up shakily.
"Dinner is set for seven-thirty," I told Clay and Billy, and rushed out.

The first person I saw at the hospital was not Regina. It was Mrs.
His-tara.

"How did you know?" I asked. Her integument was dull now and there were
patches of scales rubbed off. Her eyes were almost not visible.

"Mrs. Crowley called me," she said. "In any case I would have been
here. There is in Hi-nin also of poison. There remains for him only
the Return Home. We must rejoice for him."

The smile she brought forth was more than I could bear.

"Gail's germs were poison to him?"

"Oh, no. He poisons himself. It is an ancient hormone, from the early
days of our race when we had what your Mrs. Baden so wisely calls
aggression. It is dormant in us since before the accounting of our
history. An adult Hiserean, perhaps, could fight his emotions and cure
himself. Hi-nin has no weapons--so your physicians have explained it to
me, from our scientific books. How can I doubt that they are right?"

How could I doubt it, either? It would be, I thought, rather like a
massive overdose of adrenalin. Psychogenic, of course, but what help
was it to know that? Would there be some organ in Hi-nin a surgeon
could remove? Like the adrenals in humans, perhaps?

Of course not. If they could have, they would have.

       *       *       *       *       *

I hurried on to find the room where Gail was. She was not pale, as I
had expected, but pink-cheeked and bright-eyed. They were probably
putting in more blood than they were taking out. There were two of the
other mamas from our car pool, waiting their turns.

Regina was sitting by the bed, her face ugly and swollen from crying.

"She looks just fine!" I exclaimed.

"Only in the last fifteen minutes," she said. "When I called you, she
was like ice. Her eyes didn't move."

"We're lucky with Gail. Did you know about Hi-nin?"

"The little animal!" she said. "He's the one that did it."

"He didn't do anything, Regina, and you know it."

"He shouldn't have been in the car pool. He shouldn't be with human
children at all."

"He's going to die," I said quickly, before she had time to say things
she'd have nightmares about later on.

"Sorry," Regina said, because we were all looking at her and because
her child was pink and beautiful and healthy while Hi-nin....

"Regina," I said, "what did you do after it happened?"

"_Do!_ It scared the hell out of me--that creature shaking all over and
Gail screaming. At first I didn't know what had happened. Then I saw
that _thing_ flopping around on the front seat and I screamed and threw
it out of the window. And then I noticed Hi-nin's wrist, or whatever
you call it. I said, 'Oh, God, I _knew_ you'd get us in trouble!' But
the creature didn't say anything. He just sat there. And I let the
other children off and brought Hi-nin to you because I didn't want to
get involved with that Mrs. Baden."

"And Gail?"

"She seemed all right. She just climbed in the back with the other
children and pretty soon they were all laughing."

"And all that time little Hi-nin.... Regina, didn't you even pat him or
hold him or kiss it for him or anything?"

"_Kiss_ it!"

At that moment Mrs. His-tara came in, with Mrs. Baden and a doctor
behind her. I should have known. Mrs. Baden didn't leave people to
fight battles alone.

Mrs. His-tara looked at Mrs. Baden, but Mrs. Baden only nodded and
smiled encouragingly at her.

       *       *       *       *       *

The doctor was gently pulling the needle out of Gail's vein. The room
was silent. Even Gail sat large-eyed and solemn.

"Mrs. Crowley," Mrs. His-tara began, obviously dragging each word up
with great effort, "would it be accurate to tell my son that Gail has
received no hurt from him? We must, you see, prepare him for the Return
Home."

Regina looked around at us and at Gail. She hadn't dared let herself
look at Mrs. His-tara yet.

"Doctor!" Regina called suddenly. "Look at Gail's mouth!"

Even from where I was, I could see it. A scaly growth along both lips.

"That's a temporary effect of the serum," the doctor said. "We tried an
antitoxin before we decided to change the blood. It is nothing to worry
about."

"Oh."

"Mrs. Crowley," Mrs. His-tara began again, "it is much to ask, but at
such a moment, much is required. If you could come yourself, and if
Gail could endure to be carried...."

But Gail did, indeed, look queer, and she stretched out her arms not to
her mother but to Mrs. His-tara.

"The tides," Mrs. His-tara said, "have cast us up a miracle."

She gathered Gail into the boneless cradle of her curved arms.

Regina took her sunglasses out of her purse and hid her eyes. "Mind
your own damned business," she told Mrs. Baden and me.

"It _is_ our damned business," I whispered to Mrs. Baden, and she held
my arm as we followed Regina down the hall.

Mrs. His-tara threaded her way through a cordon of other Hisereans who
must have been flown in for the occasion. I couldn't see the children,
but I could hear them.

"Him cold!" said Gail. "Him scared!"

"He's scared of you," Regina said. "We're sorry, Gail. Tell him we're
sorry. We didn't understand."

Gail laughed. A loud and healthy laugh.

"Gail sorry," she said. "Me thought you was to eat."

There was a small sound. I thought it was from Hi-nin and I held Mrs.
Baden's hand as though it were my only link to a sane world.

"Dat a joke," Gail said. "Hi-nin 'posed to laugh!"

Then there was a silence and Regina started to say something but Mrs.
His-tara whispered, "Please! It is a thought between the children."

Then there was a small, quiet laugh from Hi-nin. "In truth," he said
with that oh, so familiar lisp, "it is funny."

"Me don't do it again," Gail said, solemn now.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I got home it was so late that the stars were sliding down the sky
and I just knew Clay wouldn't have thought to turn the parking lights
on. But he had.

Furthermore, he was still up.

"Were you worried?" I asked delightedly.

"No. Regina called a couple of hours ago."

"_Regina?_"

"She said she was concerned about the expression on your face."

Clay handed me a present, all wrapped in gold stickum with an
electronic butterfly bouncing airily around on it.

I peeled the paper off carefully, to save it for Billy, and set the
butterfly on the sticky side.

Inside the box was a gorgeous blue fluffy affair of no apparent utility.

"Oh, _Clay_!" I gasped. "I can't wear anything like _this_!" I slipped
out of my paper clothes and the gown slithered around me.

Hastily, I pulled the pins out of my hair, brushed it back and smeared
on some lipstick.

"I look silly," I said. "I'm all the wrong type." My little crayola
note was still stuck in the mirror. Phooey to me. "You're laughing at
me."

"I'm not. You don't really look respectable at all, Verne."

I ran into the dining area. "Regina told you about the boudoir slip!"

I heard Clay stumble over a chair in the dark.

"Obscenity!" he said. "All right, she did. So what? I think you look
like a call girl."

I ran into the living room and hid behind the sofa. "Do you really,
truly think so?"

"Absolutely!" Another chair clattered and Clay toed the living room
lights. "Ah!" he said. "I've got you cornered. You look like a chorus
girl. You look like an easy pickup. You look like a dirty little--"

"Stop," I cried, "while you're still winning!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Car Pool, by Rosel George Brown

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAR POOL ***

***** This file should be named 60653.txt or 60653.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/6/5/60653/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
