The Project Gutenberg EBook of Murder Beneath the Polar Ice, by Hayden Howard

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Murder Beneath the Polar Ice

Author: Hayden Howard

Release Date: December 14, 2019 [EBook #60922]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MURDER BENEATH THE POLAR ICE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                     MURDER BENEATH THE POLAR ICE

                           By HAYDEN HOWARD

                     _The Arctic Sea was deadly in
                  every way--its icy water, crushing
                   ice, avid beasts. Still something
                  there was more lethal than these!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, July 1960.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Wavelets of cigarette smoke drifted across the comfortably lounging
enlisted men in the air-conditioned compartment of the Fleet Ballistic
Missile submarine, as they sat watching Barney. Sweat streaming from
his swollen-veined forehead, hurried and grotesque in his black rubber
diving suit, exploding triumphant curses like underwater demolition
charges, Barney finished tightening the control cables of what
resembled a torpedo with two open cockpits. "_This_ time the little
gal raises her hydroplanes!"

At this contrast of men, the Murderer had to grin, but carefully in
order not to sweat and ruin the insulating qualities of his three
woolen layers of longjohns. The submariners seemed quiet-talking and
cooperative, as well adjusted as sardines in a can. The diver, Barney,
was foul-mouthed and fiercely individualistic, a wonderful guy--his
diving buddy.

A legend in his own time, Barney was reputed to have arisen from the
mine-strewn waters of the Korean coast at the time of the Wonsan-Inchon
landings to give advice to General MacArthur.

As an Underwater Demolition Team diver, Barney dated clear back into
the Murderer's childhood recollections of World War II, to dim names
like Kwajalein and Guam, where former Seabees became combat divers to
wire and blast Japanese underwater obstacles and leave welcoming signs
for the Marines.

Barney was only quiet about two things, his age and his circumference.
He still fancied himself a baseball catcher, and his stubby fingers
showed the deleterious effects of grabbing at foul tips with a bare
hand, but those same fingers could expertly repair a wristwatch and the
automatic transmission of an admiral's car and hock one and "borrow"
the other.

Barney had managed to put his homely younger sister through college
and was now maneuvering to marry her off to a lieutenant commander on
the staff of Admiral Rickover. And he could expertly joke the fears out
of his diving buddy.

Winking at his comfortably smoke-filled audience, Barney dumped a
sack of non-magnetic tools into the forward cockpit of the minisub he
personally had built, and cocked his head.

"Murderer, here, is hoping the villain is a sea serpent. Don't laugh,
you sea horses. The latest scuttlebutt from Alaska has it that every
time a picket buoy goes dead out here under the ice, the last sound it
broadcasts is a sort of toothy crunch."

       *       *       *       *       *

He pushed the joke a little further. "Turn your periscopes on the blade
Murderer's wearing! John Paul Jones used to issue those for cutlasses!
Murderer's hoping to fight the sea serpent hand to hand."

His grin widening with embarrassment, the Murderer felt called upon to
retort. "I'll give you a better suspect for stealing our picket buoys.
Santa Claus. These are his territorial waters. Are you aware that in
the Middle Ages Santa Claus was the patron saint of thieves?"

"Now, Mr. College Boy," Barney began, "you just want to show us you
also studied history, not just marine biology. This boy will even tell
you a long Latin name for a little something that floats like dandruff
in the water." A touch of pride appeared in Barney's voice. "He can
tell you its whole life history and what eats it and why it's important
and why it will be a lot more important fifty years from now when
_your_ kids will need a lot more food from the sea."

There was a perceptible slowing, and the weird sound from the atomic
submarine's heat-exchanger muted. Barney glanced at his pressure-proof
watch. The Murderer tensed.

"This college boy may look like a tennis player," Barney went on as if
nothing had happened, "but in the water, when Murderer sees something
swimming down there, he doesn't care how big it is. We were installing
the broadcast aerial from a picket buoy up through ice, and Murderer
had just retracted the magnesium flare pole, so I'm half-blinded. I
look down. I see something so big I want to get out of there on a
bicycle. But down Murderer swims with the magnesium flare in one hand
and his cutlass in the other. It's a shark as big as a small whale.
The flare hypnotizes it, and round and round they go, with Murderer
stabbing away, letting in sea water, until that shark bugs out of there
like a bare-bottomed boy from a swarm of bumblebees!"

The Murderer studied his depth gauge to cover his embarrassment. The
reason the shark had been so big was that it belonged to a species with
the whale-like habit of straining the water for minute crustaceans. It
was harmless and had winced from his first thrust. Then its shagreen
hide had tensed to armor-toughness, and it had been like trying to stab
a submarine. It left because it had no reason to stay.

"I'm _relieved_," one of the submariners laughed, "that stabbing _fish_
is how he got the name Murderer."

"Not only fish," Barney went on enthusiastically. "This boy almost got
himself court-martialed. We're working from the icebreaker, out from
Point Barrow, diving from a whaleboat, and before the Annapolis ensign
can say a word, Murderer's over the side. We put our face-plates in
the water. He's bubbling down on a walrus! I swear, he rides it like a
bucking horse. You need a long blade in the arctic. And ugly--when we
bent a cable to that walrus from the icebreaker, the walrus stalled the
winch!"

"What about tusks?" a submariner's voice asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Murderer had been well aware of tusks. For three days he had been
studying the walrus herd with fascination. These staring-eyed, noisy
mammals were living in icy water that would numb and kill a man in a
few minutes.

Some of them were diving to clam beds more than two hundred and fifty
feet down, where their bodies were subjected to a pressure of more than
eight atmospheres. In shallower water, where cockles predominated, he
had actually observed them raking the muddy bottom with their tusks and
rising with great disintegrating masses of mud and shells between their
flippers. Few men had ever seen that.

He marveled at the evolutionary process by which some primitive land
mammal of the Eocene Period had become the walrus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why he had swum down and attacked a walrus, he did not know. Afterward
he felt ashamed, not just because it was a dumb thing to do and he'd
had three ribs cracked and should have been killed; not because it
was a show-off thing, with sailors urging him to stand in front of
its hoisted body so they could take pictures for their girl friends;
not because Barney lost his appetite for a couple of days and didn't
seem very eager to dive near the herd. What bothered him was the
indescribable feeling he'd had as he swam down with his knife to the
walrus, a feeling closer than hunger....

"When we get back, I'll show you the photographs," Barney was insisting
proudly. "When they assigned this boy as my diving buddy, they sent his
name along, Murderer. If it swims. Murderer will go down after it, they
said. And they weren't lying."

But that was _not_ how the name originated. Sitting there in the
drifting cigarette smoke, feeling the sweat soak through his longjohns,
the Murderer wished the submarine's commander would hurry up and decide
on a position, let them out of the boat, get it over with.

Probably by now, even the guys who were in U.D.T. training with him
believed he got the name by murdering fish.

_They_ gave the name to him, but it was during an orientation meeting
with diagrams and graphs and talk of megatons and current-borne
radioactivity and a model of an atomic depth charge on the table. An
incredulous revulsion had come over him, this mindlessly mechanical can
of death that could poison, could make _useless_ two billion struggling
years of life, all wasted, single-celled ancestors, diatoms, copepods,
wondrous fish.

During the discussion, he had kept exclaiming: "It's _murder_! It's
_murder_!" This was how he had acquired his name.

"Hey, Murderer," one of the submariners laughed. "You should cut off a
sea serpent steak for the skipper. I bet he'd go for one."

"Speaking of murderers," the Murderer blurted, suddenly detesting the
name, raising his clean-cut, angrily intelligent face, flooding his
longjohns with angry sweat, "you all are potential murderers--on a big
scale. Let's say ten thousand victims apiece. I kill a few fish, so I'm
a murderer? But you are all gears and cogs of a mass production murder
mechanism called a Fleet Ballistic Missile submarine. An impersonal
machine that--"

"Not impersonal," the commander's voice said clearly as he came into
the compartment. "This boat is just another tool for survival--like a
shield or spear. Men make the decisions for it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Barney said in an attempt to ease the tension, "You want us to bring
you any ice cubes, Commander?"

The commander's gray eyes studied Barney's red-veined ones. "Just
bring yourselves back, Barney. We'll settle for that." He touched the
minisub. "All I can say is we _think_ we're in the sector where the
picket buoys shorted out. There've been such meager appropriations
for hydrographic surveys in the Arctic Ocean, we haven't a very clear
picture of fathometer landmarks even in this sector. So the navigator
has depended pretty heavily on his dead reckoning and inertial
navigation. What I'm getting at is don't spend too much time looking.
Use conservative search patterns. Give yourself plenty of margin to
find your way home to us. We'll do our best to hold this position."

Slowly, the commander smiled. "We'll keep the coffee hot until you get
back."

The Murderer watched them roll the minisub along on its cradle and into
the chamber. From the stern, the minisub looked less like a torpedo.
Instead of the compact round propeller blades associated with high
speeds under water, the minisub had long narrow blades which might have
looked more appropriate on a Wright Brother's airplane. These would
unwind through the water so slowly there would be no cavitation, no
tell-tale bubbling sounds.

"One last thing," the commander said, including the Murderer in his
gray gaze. "No aggressive action. If you should meet--someone--break
off contact in a dignified manner and come home."

Strangely, the commander smiled again and glanced at his watch.
"Right about now, my two kids are waking from their afternoon naps
and running out into the backyard in their underpants to swing on the
swings. No aggressive action, O.K.?"

The Murderer felt thankful he was not the commander--with the
responsibility for sixteen hydrogen-warheaded Polaris missiles on his
back.

Weighted down by his air tanks, the Murderer crawled into the chamber
beside the minisub and reached into the stern cockpit. He unreeled a
few feet of the red wire and plugged it into the chest socket of his
electric suit warmer. Out there, you couldn't search very long without
battery heat from the minisub.

Automatically checking his full-face mask, he connected with the black
wire and tested his throat mike, earplug circuit. "One--two--three--"

"Four--shut the door," Barney's voice croaked weirdly. For complicated
two-man disassemblies underwater, the traditional hand signals were not
enough. The minisub acted as a telephone exchange.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turning from the minisub, Barney plugged into the telephone connection
in the wall of the chamber, giving them the word. From the way the
Arctic Ocean, fire-hosed into the chamber, the Murderer guessed they
had at least a hundred feet of water standing on them. This captain
had no intention of smashing his periscopes on pack ice.

Wryly, the Murderer grinned while the water crept up his body. He knew
the limiting factor in their search for a picket buoy, any picket
buoy, was the survival time in their air tanks. As for the minisub,
it had the capability of keeping their corpses warm for several hours
thereafter. With its gyroscope efficiently clicking commands to the
rudder, it would maintain a straighter course than any man could steer.
If it could eat fish and reproduce itself....

The waterline rose above his glass face-plate. On the curved ceilings
of the chamber, the air shrank into a squirming bubble. The pressure
had been equalized. There was a cold metallic screech as Barney opened
the outer hatch into the Arctic Ocean.

Valving an additional hiss of compressed air into the minisub's forward
flotation tank, the Murderer gave it a gentle push and rode it out, his
hand on the air release valve now to prevent the increasingly buoyant
minisub from falling upward against the white-glaring underside of the
ice pack.

"There's a hell of a current up here," Barney's voice croaked.

The Murderer glanced down, and his free arm clutched the cockpit in
an anthropoidal fear-reflex of falling. The water was that clear. Down
there, the submarine seemed to drift away like a great dirigible in the
wind, but the Murderer knew the minisub was actually doing the drifting.

"Tinker carefully with your gyroscope, Mr. Navigator," Barney laughed,
"and we'll go take a look for your sea serpent."

He gave Barney a straight course into the current. The Murderer had had
nightmares of being lost under the arctic ice pack.

"Keep an eye peeled on the ice," Barney muttered, but the
Murderer kept both eyes on the instruments and gave Barney a
one-hundred-eighty-degree change of course, trying to determine the
speed of the current.

"One way's as good as another," Barney laughed.

Unfortunately, this had to be a visual search. The drawing-board boys
had designed the picket buoys so they would _not_ be detected, and
thoughtfully made them self-destroying in case they were. If anywhere
near, a submarine would be recorded, and the under-ice warning system
had actually worked against their own submarines. But the picket buoys
in this sector, one by one, had died without a warning sound except,
as scuttlebutt would have it, a toothy crunch.

"This pack ice has changed," Barney's voice muttered.

Barney and the Murderer had been one of the diving teams out there
when a submarine ejected the buoys beneath the polar ice. A buoy
would squirt from a torpedo tube. When the non-magnetic float struck
the underside of the ice, metal rods clutched upward like the legs
of a spider clinging to the ice. A thread-like cable lowered the
tiny instrument capsule into the depths. The capsule's small size
was intended to foil typical mine detection sonar, while the float
was supposed to merge with irregularities of sonic reflection on the
underside of the ice. Some admiral had even ordered the floats painted
white, but they still cut off light and appeared dark from beneath the
ice.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the divers had melted a quick hole through two or three feet
of pack ice and extended the whip-like aerial into the polar air,
headquarters could keep track of the drifting buoy's location.
Intermittently, for the classified number of years the batteries were
supposed to last, each buoy would broadcast its own identification
code, only coming through with a high wattage warning when its
instrument capsule in the depths of the Arctic Ocean was awakened.
The joker here, the Murderer thought, was that the aerials might be
hard to see, but any simple fool could make himself a radio location
finder. _Live_ buoys could be hunted from the surface ice.

"How dry I am," Barney's voice croaked unmusically, "how dry I be,
nobody knows--nobody cares--"

Now the white underside of the ice drooped in downward bulges,
indicating thicker masses of old ice that had been frozen into the
pack. The Murderer saw the gray outline of driftwood entombed in this
old ice.

"Drift ice from the Siberian rivers," Barney croaked. "When we planted
the picket buoys, our sector didn't have any of this."

The Murderer looked down at his instruments, preparing to change course.

"My God, look!" Barney's voice croaked, and his black rubber arm
pointed upward.

The Murderer's breathing stopped as he made out something quivering up
there. "What is it?"

"Animal, vegetable or mineral," Barney wheezed. "If it's animal, I
don't want to be around when whatever laid these _eggs_ comes back."

Swaying up there on the underside of the ice in a gelatinous mass at
least twenty feet across, it resembled a mass of gigantic frog's eggs.

But the Murderer decided there was too great a variation in size for
them to be eggs. Those nearest the outside of the mass seemed clearer,
more transparent, than the surrounding gelatinous substance. The
Murderer's excitement began to fade.

"They're not eggs," he said disappointedly. "I think they're only
bubbles encased in some sort of soft plastic."

"Mineral," Barney said with some relief in his voice. "Now I see that
dark part in the middle has the shape of a can. The bubbles must be to
float a mine or secret mechanism," his voice ended excitedly. Barney
wanted nothing to do with live things; he liked mechanical devices that
clicked and buzzed and could be taken apart and then put back together.

He eased the minisub up toward the gelatinous mass.

"Don't bring the minisub too close," the Murderer gasped, imagining a
mechanical click as the impersonal gadgetry within the can detected
their approach and cocked the lifeless steel prongs of a detonator.

Barney laughed in excited contrast. "Even our air tanks are
non-magnetic. Or if it's hydrophonic, the noise level to set it off
would have to be plenty high, because of all the crunching sounds every
day in the ice. I'm going to find out what it is."

Barney rose from his cockpit, trailing his green-stained canvas bag of
non-magnetic tools.

"You're not going to cut into it, are you?" the Murderer cried.

"That's what the taxpayers pay me for--to protect them from--you name
it. Murderer, you sail the minisub off until all my telephone cable is
out. Just like when we practiced disarming our picket buoys, I'll tell
you every move I make."

"If it's a mine," the Murderer said, "I'll be as flattened as you."

"Take notes on your navigational pad. I'll start with a little
experimental cut into the jello. We can't go off and leave this thing;
we'd never find it again. And it wouldn't be exactly smart to tow it to
our submarine until we know what its insides are supposed to do."

       *       *       *       *       *

Barney's black rubber arm was sawing vigorously up and down. "This
jello's tougher than it looks. Very ingenious. I'll bet this was a
compact little bundle when a submarine ejected it into the water.
Probably sea water makes it swell--and chemicals fizz inside so that
the bubbles appear and float the can up to the underside of the ice.

"This is important," Barney's voice croaked on. "I've come to some thin
shiny wires. They seem to be all through the jello and to curve back
in toward the can."

The Murderer clenched his hand. He could feel the tendons and imagine
the wonderfully intricate nerves of his living hand. He'd been
frightened many times under the sea. Occasionally divers talked about
which way they'd rather go. Nitrogen narcosis was popular among the
heavy drinkers. Barney's choice--a nice close mine explosion because
it would be so quick. They thought the Murderer was crazy when he
said he'd rather be eaten by a Great White Shark than smashed by some
miserable explosive gadget.

"Now I'm spreading two wires apart," Barney said calmly, "but I've left
a layer of gelatin around each of them. I will not cut the wires and
I'll try not to let them touch each other."

Gradually his head and shoulders disappeared up into the gelatinous
mass.

"Don't snag your tanks or regulator on a wire," the Murderer breathed.

"Now I'm cutting within a few inches of the base of the can." Only
Barney's kicking legs showed. "My air is filling the cut--and I'm
going--to open a--chimney." Bubbles emerged from the side of the
swaying mass.

"Suppose this thing is atomic," the Murderer said. "It would crush our
ballistic missile sub from here."

"This is peacetime, boy. Nobody's fool enough to let an atomic mine go
drifting around with the ice."

The Murderer looked down at the hard metal shell of the minisub. You
could blast and smash it, and it would still be metal. You even could
vaporize it, and its atomic particles would be somewhere--or changed
into energy--but nothing really lost, because it had never been alive.
The Murderer thought of the commander's two kids waking from their
naps. It had taken life two billion years to get that far, and it all
could be lost. Right now, was Barney committing _aggressive_ action?

He thought again of that orientation class where they theoretically
learned how to disarm an unexploded atomic depth charge. He had
expressed his feeling that these atomic charges were _murder_. The
fools had laughed and begun calling him Murderer.

"The bottom of this can is as blank," Barney said, "as a sailor in one
of those modern art museums. I'm going to cut my way along the side of
the can and see what I can see."

A little fish, perhaps lost from its school, peered into the Murderer's
glass face-plate. Its wondrous eye grew inquisitively larger, and he
thought of the millions of cooperating cells that made up its eye and
optic nerve and receiving brain and the marvel that the individually
drifting cells of two billion years ago could have achieved this.

There was a contradiction, he thought. He was amazed by life and yet he
speared fish. Did he enjoy feeling life wriggle on the end of his spear?

"I've reached the top," Barney's voice croaked. "There's a rod
here--get this, a vertical rod. It extends up into the ice like with
the aerials of our picket buoys. I knew it wasn't a mine. This is
how they plan to detect our atomic submarines. This will make a very
interesting present for Admiral Rickover--"

At this instant there was a darkening slap against the Murderer's mask.
His eardrums burst inward. His intestines squeezed up into his chest
from the force of the underwater explosion. He blacked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ice water seared his face. He was drowning. Convulsively, his hand
groped for his mask. The glass was intact. His hand dragged the mask
back to a proper fit upon his face, and compressed air forced out the
sea water. He could feel the telephone cord pulling at his mask.

Everything was blinding white, and he realized he was belly up beneath
the ice. "Barney?"

The telephone wire began to drag him down head first, and he went down
it hand over hand toward the slowly sinking minisub. "Barney?"

Further down, he saw Barney's black rubber suit spread-eagled and
sinking, and he swam clumsily down past the minisub. He clutched
Barney's black rubber arm and dragged it toward the minisub. The black
rubber suit seemed to have no bones. Everything drooped and swayed as
he tried to fit Barney into the stern cockpit. When he wrapped Barney's
wires to tie him in, they came face to face. There was no glass in
Barney's mask. The glass had burst where the face had been.

       *       *       *       *       *

Murderer's eyes narrowed in helpless rage at Barney's death.

Dragging himself into Barney's forward cockpit, he valved air into the
minisub's forward flotation tank, raising the torpedo-like nose. It was
then that he saw them up there, silhouetted small and frog-like against
the blinding white ice, two divers.

The two silhouettes were looking down at him, and he knew they had been
attracted by the explosion of their gelatinous picket buoy. He looked
all around for the dim gray outline of their submarine, but there was
no sign of their "home," and his gaze concentrated with wide-eyed
intensity on their black paddling shapes as his minisub rose from the
depths.

He saw them exchange hurried hand signals. They began to swim away,
side by side, their fins fluttering rapidly now. They were swimming a
definite course, and still there was no sign of their submarine as his
minisub inexorably gained on them.

Now that he had reached their altitude, he noticed they were already
tiring. One diver looked back, then swam frantically to catch up with
the other. Like a slow fighter plane, the minisub came in on them from
behind, and one diver pushed at the other. They again exchanged hand
signals, losing yards to the minisub, and one began to swim hard while
the other turned back, facing the minisub, raising his hand in what
appeared to be a courteous military salute. The minisub kept coming
straight at him.

Then the diver spread his arms in a gesture of peace. The minisub's
torpedo-shaped nose rammed his belly. Unsheathing his long blade, the
Murderer struck.

As the diver wriggled, the Murderer withdrew the blade and struck
again. Air bubbles streamed from the diver's chest with each exhalation
of breath as he backwatered. His expression seemed mild surprise as
the Murderer struck a third time, driving the blade down between the
man's neck and collar bone, pushing him deeper. The next blow smashed
the mask. Belatedly, the man's hand flurried, seeming to clutch at his
bubbles as he sank.

The Murderer looked up. Far off under the ice, the other diver had
stopped, was looking down, watching, and the Murderer held up his
blade as a signal and turned the minisub upward, after him. This diver
took evasive action among the downward bulges of old Siberian ice and
suddenly vanished.

Although there was no sky glare in the water, the Murderer supposed
the diver had found an open lead in the ice and would rather freeze to
death, or at least put up a fight from the edge of the ice, than die in
the water.

       *       *       *       *       *

Valving more air into the minisub's flotation tanks, the Murderer
steered it rapidly up into the oddly round, oddly dim lead in the ice
pack. At the edge of his mask-vision he glimpsed a longish tubular
shape suspended in the water, but the minisub was rising too fast for
him to get a good look. The overbuoyant minisub bloomed above the
surface and sloshed back, rolling unsteadily while the film of water
slid off his mask without freezing and he saw.

The white blur became the biggest twin-rotored copter he had ever seen,
squatting there on the ice, white except for its glass. Then his eyes
were attracted by motion, by the parka-clad men hauling the surviving
diver up on the ice. Other darkish figures were simply standing there,
some of them beginning to point.

Behind them was a smaller helicopter with the loop-shaped aerial of
a radio location finder mounted atop its plastic dome. There was
something wrong with the sky, and the Murderer realized it was not the
sky. It was a vast white canvas dome, dimpling in the polar wind. The
unnatural circle in the ice and the equipment grouped around it all
were hidden from aerial observation.

Pointing at him from the fuselage of the huge helicopter, and so close
that his eyes had avoided it, was a metal boom with a hoist cable
taut into the water, tethering something below the surface. Some of
the men were running toward the huge helicopter now. In front of them
at the edge of the ice lay shapeless bundles of what appeared to be
black rubberized canvas, and he wondered fleetingly if these contained
more of the soon-to-be gelatinous picket buoys. One of the figures was
aiming something at him. As the Murderer let air out of the flotation
tanks and swiftly sank, he realized it had not been a gun; it had been
a camera with a telephoto lens.

He passed the tubular shape on the end of the cable. It was an
anti-submarine torpedo. When he sank deeper, he passed a cylinder
dangling from two black rubber-insulated cables.

He valved compressed air back into the flotation tanks and came up
under the ice, so hazardously close he had to duck his head as he
steered a weaving course among the downward bulges of old Siberian ice.
Even though he had been deafened, he felt the sonar pulsing against the
ice, searching for him. Then he felt it knocking against the minisub,
pinging against his air tanks, thudding accusingly against his bones.
It followed him wherever he steered.

He smiled blearily. This would be the ultimate if they unleashed the
expensively intricate homing torpedo--at one man riding a cheap minisub
constructed by a big-handed, happily singing petty officer on his own
time. He hoped they _would_ waste the torpedo on him. If he had to be
destroyed by a gadget, an infernal machine, at least it was better to
be killed as an individual rather than in a group so large he would be
nameless in death.

Abruptly the sonar left him. They must have decided he was not going to
lead them back to his submarine. Now they were hurriedly ranging for
it.

He cruised on and on with his dead cargo.

Then he felt the echo of sonar from the submarine's hull. He must be
close. The helicopter, with its sonar system lowered into the water
like a fisherman's hook, had caught the Fleet Ballistic Missile
submarine.

He could feel the submarine's sonar searching frantically. They would
be sounding for another submarine. He could imagine horror on the sonar
men's faces as they realized they couldn't detect anything at the
apparent source of the unidentified sonar that had caught them.

The submarine's sonar caught something--him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He steered directly into it and found the submarine. Bow into the
current, the gray undersea boat was still holding its position. The
Murderer guessed the commander had decided that the best move was no
move.

Valving out air, he brought the minisub down, opened the outer hatch
and dragged the minisub into the water-filled chamber. A great
weariness had come over him and it was all he could do to lock the
hatch. He knocked on the bulkhead, while the persistent sonar pinging
went on and on. Someone tapped very gently, although they might as
well hammer with a wrench; it wouldn't make any difference now. The
Murderer realized they were waiting for him to plug into the telephone
socket and give his maximum depth and time spent there and other
decompression data he hadn't kept. They intended to decompress him as
if this were just another safe-and-sane training exercise.

In the chamber lights, Barney's rubber suit had sagged over the side of
the minisub like a black rag doll. The Murderer averted his eyes and
plugged in.

"One--two--three--" he said automatically.

"Barney?"

"Barney's dead."

"This is the commander. There is a submarine out there. For some
reason, we can't locate it with our sonar. Have you seen it?"

"Commander, it's a helicopter. They have an anti-submarine torpedo in
the water."

"I'm having difficulty reading you--"

"Helicopter. Anti-sub torpedo!"

"Did they take any aggressive action against you?"

"Depends on how you look at it. Their picket buoys are under here.
Barney tried to recover one. It was booby-trapped to destroy itself."

"Barney?" the commander's voice persisted.

"I told you he's dead! I got one of their divers."

"One of their divers? He was attacking you?"

"I killed him. He was trying to get away."

There was a long pause. Only the persistent knocking of the giant
helicopter's sonar reached the Murderer's ear.

When the commander spoke again, it was as if murder had been done. "Do
they know?"

"The other one looked back. Sure they know. They know."

"Then they may consider we're the ones who've taken aggressive action,"
the commander said slowly. "We'll have to wait. If we move off, their
commanding officers on the spot may feel committed to local retaliatory
action. We'll have to wait while they're radioing for instructions.
We'll have to hope their side will decide to take this before an
international court."

"Court? What sort of court? A murder court?"

"Let's hope it's only one murder," the commander's voice came through
distantly, "and not one hundred million. We'll have to sit it out."

As decompression began, the Murderer sank down beside Barney's body
in the water-filled chamber. Superimposed upon the commander's two
little kids, swinging on their swings, he saw the surprised face of the
diver--and even the little fish, lost from its school, and its wondrous
eye--two billion years of evolution waiting for a verdict of life or
death.





End of Project Gutenberg's Murder Beneath the Polar Ice, by Hayden Howard

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MURDER BENEATH THE POLAR ICE ***

***** This file should be named 60922.txt or 60922.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/9/2/60922/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
