Project Gutenberg's The Valley of the Masters, by Charles Minor Blackford

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Valley of the Masters

Author: Charles Minor Blackford

Release Date: December 30, 2019 [EBook #61055]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF THE MASTERS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                       THE VALLEY OF THE MASTERS

                      By CHARLES MINOR BLACKFORD

                 His sin was curiosity--his crime was
                 witchcraft--but Henry's real offense
                 against his strange world was that it
                 was dying--and he wanted it to live!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1961.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Henry stopped and squatted in the underbrush, well hidden from the
path but close enough to see the coming group. Within a minute they
became visible. There were twenty-five to thirty boys, girls and youths
walking slowly in ragged groups, talking and laughing. The youngest
were ahead, a group just entering their teens, dressed like the rest
in jackets and shorts, with sandals of plast on their feet. The dark,
synthetic cloth made them a uniformed body.

Henry's nose wrinkled in distaste. Again his hideaway would be invaded
and he would have to move on. But where to?

They were opposite him now, a bare twenty feet away. Most of them
looked as alike as brothers and sisters, logically enough; there was
not one who wasn't a cousin in some degree to the others. Plump,
round-faced and dull-eyed, they lived from cradle to grave according
to custom. It was the custom, when they were old enough to feel the
urge, to join a group like this. Together they tramped the valley from
spring to fall, gathering fruit and nuts as they came in season. When a
couple felt like settling down they awaited a vacant Mastership--a plot
of orchard and the house that went with it--and moved in. They took
over the responsibilities of the place and bred or adopted the three
children necessary to hold it. They remained there until they became
Elders. Then they moved into Town, where they worked in the factories,
idled and gossiped until death overtook them.

They were ignorant, superstitious, living out their dull routine as
generations before them had. Only a few questioned it. Almost none made
any active challenge.

The youngsters sighted the tavern and made for it at a dead run,
wanting to claim favorable bunks before the others arrived.

Henry was impatient. Ants were crawling over his foot, but it would
never do for him to be seen, especially in the woods. One didn't go
into them. They were inhabited by goblins, ghosts and fearsome animals.

Finally they were past. He straightened, started to step into the path,
then squatted again quickly. Coming alone, behind the others, was the
girl.

Her slimness and pale hair made her stand out from the rest. His
thoughts had been upon her since that day when his group passed the
house of her father, an avocado Master, down in the lower valley. She
had called to them to wait, had run inside to come back with her two
pouches, one for her personal belongings, the other for food. Living
on a fruit diet as they did, they ate most of their awakened hours.

"I'm Theta!" she called out happily as she joined them. "Mama says I'm
old enough to go with you." She recognized a cousin and ran over to
join her, her hair a spot of brightness among the dark. He wanted her
from that moment, but she was far too young. He would have to wait.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coming towards Theta from the opposite direction was the slap of flat
feet.

In a moment Henry recognized Ole. He was considerably older than the
others; his only object in life was enjoying all the young girls who
joined the group. He was a bulky dullard and a bully, his eyes small
and mean.

It was evident that he was looking for the girl. A pleased expression
spread over his face when he saw her. She stopped abruptly, looking
about for a way to flee, but the path was enclosed by woods and Ole was
on her.

"Leave me alone!" she cried in anger as his hand closed about her
wrist. Henry could see disgust for him in her eyes. Why didn't she let
him have what he wanted and be done with him? That was the way most of
the girls responded.

"Won't have anything to do with me, eh?" gloated Ole. "Think you are
too good for us! I been watching you, asking about you. None of the
boys have had you ... but you won't get by me!"

Henry felt a surge of sympathy for her, fed by his dislike for the
other. He slipped into the path. He was almost up to them before he was
seen. Ole swung about, still holding the girl. Henry stopped six feet
off.

"Why don't you let her alone if she doesn't want you?" he asked with
deceiving mildness, apparently relaxed.

There was startled fright in Ole's eyes. Henry had appeared so
suddenly, from nowhere. Worse, he was proscribed. He was accused of
learning witchery.

Henry was taller than Ole, but thin and almost weak looking. This would
be something to boast about: capturing the witch singlehanded, bringing
him in for punishment!

"Make me let her alone, then!" he challenged.

It was usual to boast and strut before fighting. Henry took the
advantage of immediate attack. He sprang at the other, catching him
before he unhanded the girl, with a right to the jaw, a left to the
belly.

Theta ran about fifty feet down the path, then turned to watch. Ole,
head down, was closing in to grip his opponent, but Henry stepped to
one side, coming up with a blow to Ole's right eye. Ole raised his
guard and Henry sank both fists into the other's stomach.

Ole doubled up.

There was no fight in him. He plunged past Henry, down the path
towards the tavern. Henry faced the girl. She came towards him without
hesitation.

"Thank you," she said. "I shouldn't have left the others. I didn't
think he had noticed."

She walked slowly towards the tavern, Henry beside her. The past
year had made her taller, filled her out. Yet the sweetness of her
expression was the same, and the vitality in her face and eyes.

"He's been after you then?"

She nodded. "Him and a couple of others."

It was just a turn in the path to sight of the tavern. Henry halted.

"You seem to forget I'm proscribed," he reminded her.

"I don't care! I like you--always have." Her voice became tragic, "Why
did you go into that awful learning house?"

"I got tired of wondering--wondering what kept the food in the bins
fresh, how it got from the hoppers in the fields to the bins. What made
the light and heat. Where the water came from."

"But the Old Ones did it all by magic!"

"What kind of magic?" His face had a slightly mocking expression. "If
that was so why are things beginning to break down? Magic should go on
forever."

       *       *       *       *       *

From the direction of the tavern came sounds of shouting. He smiled at
her. "You'd better go on before they think I've turned you into a bat."

"Henry--" she began, but she had lingered too long. The whole group
rounded the turn, trotting, their faces twisted in superstitious fury.
They raised their arms when they sighted the two. Each hand had a stone
in it.

"She's one of them too!" screamed fat, malicious Hecla, seeing a chance
to vent her envy. "They're planning something! Throw! Throw!"

Her voice was a hysterical shriek. Henry saw the stones in the air.
Grasping the girl's wrist he drew her into the brush beside the path.

He stopped his flight under an ancient tree and let go her wrist.

"See," he said, "even to speak to me is dangerous."

She tossed her head and brushed the hair from her brow, her eyes
scornful. "I don't care. I'm sick of them."

"You can go back. Give them some fancy tale about my hexing you, but
say that you crossed two sticks or something and got away."

She looked him squarely in the face, her own composed and determined.
"I'd rather stay with you."

He dropped to a jutting rock and scraped at the dead leaves with the
heel of his sandal.

"It's not nice," he began, "the life I live. Hiding in the woods by
day, sneaking into deserted houses or taverns at night for food and
warmth. I've been doing it all summer now, and that's bad enough. In a
month the Masters of these upper levels will be closing their houses
and the taverns, moving to town for the winter. Everything on the lower
levels will be taken up. They expect me to be starved into surrender."

Theta dropped to her knees beside him.

"I'd rather be with you. I've wanted to be with you ever since I first
saw you. But you never seemed to notice me."

"I noticed you." He placed a hand over hers. "But you were so young
looking, so sweet. I was waiting for you to grow up a little more.
Then, when I found an open Mastership, I was going to ask you to share
it with me."

Theta felt a tingling happiness. Her face flushed, her eyes brightened.

"Henry!" she cried. "I've always wanted you! That's why I never...."

He put an arm about her and pulled her close. They sat that way for
minutes.

"I'll give you a Mastership!" he cried out. "I'll give you the whole
valley!" He pushed her shoulders around until she was facing him. "What
is your first wish, Mistress of the Valley?"

"Something to eat," she said promptly.

Henry made a rueful face. "My dear, that is something you will have to
become used to: being hungry. But fortunately I know of a ruined and
deserted house where the bins are still operating."

The forest they were in filled a steep-sided ravine. He followed it
for some distance, then started abruptly up the left-hand slope to a
low-crowned crest planted with apple trees. A hundred yards away was
the house.

One corner of it was crushed by a fallen tree. The low sun made shafts
of light through the trees as Henry approached it cautiously, Theta
behind him. He entered through the broken wall into what was once a
bedroom, then through a door into the remainder of the house.

It was a typical living room they entered, with the regular ration of
furnishings. The visiphone and visiscreen were set into the inner wall;
a calendar clock was over the front door, its dial marked with symbols
for planting, pruning, cutting and picking. The hand was approaching
the latter symbol, Henry went through into the kitchen, leaving her to
watch through the window. He returned with a basket of mixed fruit.

She reached for an avocado, plucking her knife from its sheath with the
other hand.

"Hey! Wait a minute!" Henry cried. "You are a sinner now, remember?" He
pushed the basket towards her. "Fill your pouch first, eat later."

They ate, keeping an eye on the path towards the house until dark. No
one moved at night except on extreme emergency, and then only with
lanterns and noise. Without lights on other than the normal glow of the
walls they retired to one of the undamaged bedrooms.

"See?" she said, with a rippling, contented laugh. "I waited for you."


II

It was still dark when they filled their pouches to capacity and
slipped from the house.

"What will we do now?" Theta asked.

Henry looked down. "I don't know. I had something planned, but...."

"What was it?"

"I was going to climb up the mountain, past the top defrost towers and
the force fence, to the top of the ridge."

She stared at him, her eyes round. "Why, that's the edge of the world!
You might fall off!"

"Not if I'm careful."

Only a few in the valley could boast of going beyond the top row of
defrosters, fewer yet of even going within looking distance of the
force fence. Beyond it, tradition said, lived great beasts that could
eat a man with one bite. While the ridges that bounded the valley on
three sides, to the east, west and north, were the edges of the world,
from which one dropped off into bottomless space.

To the south, where forest enclosed the mouth of the valley, tradition
was vague, but the edge must be off there somewhere.

It had taken Henry all summer to build up his determination. But now,
up was the only direction it was safe to go.

"If you're not afraid, I'm not either," Theta said. "Let's go."

Carrying the basket with its remaining supply of fruit between them,
they started up the slope. It was only a short distance to the top
defrosters. These only went into action at blossom time for the apples
and other highland fruits.

From there to the force fence was a steep climb through rocks and
brush. Their pace grew slower as they approached the fence. Their eyes
scanned the rocks and scant brush for signs of the great beasts, but
they saw none. Higher yet, about a quarter of a mile, was the top of
the ridge. The edge of the earth.

Theta pressed against him. "I'm scared," she murmured.

Henry's face became set. "We said we were going," he said curtly. "You
can stay if you wish." He selected rocks for both hands.

The force fence only gave them a strong tingling sensation. The plast
sandals insulated them somewhat. The slope became steeper, but there
was no indication of any great beasts. Too excited to stop and rest,
although they were breathing heavily, they pressed onward.

Would it be night down there, over the edge of the world? Stars
shining? Would it be daylight and clouds?

The top of the ridge was a hundred feet away ... ten. Henry flung
himself on the ground so if he became dizzy he would not lose his
balance and fall. Theta did the same. Side by side, they crept the
remaining distance.

What they saw made them stare in open-mouthed amazement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before them was another ridge running out from the northern range. It
was pretty much like the one they were on.

Between it and them was another valley. Defrost towers rose from among
the trees. Over the top of the opposite ridge, they could see still
another. The northern mountains were lost in the blue distance.

The shock to both was unnerving. Steeled to look out into Limbo, they
found a valley much like their own.

Together they turned and looked back into what could be seen of their
own valley.

Even in shape the two were roughly similar. They could see the tall,
slim defrost towers, an occasional house and the geometrical designs
of the groves and orchards with their orderly rows of trees. There was
Town at the lower end of the valley. And there, at the upper end, was
something they never knew existed; a large, ivy-clad building that
stretched from cliffside to cliffside. And yet above that was a still,
blue lake.

Henry looked ahead again.

There _was_ a difference in the other valley. There were no orderly
rows of fruit trees, only thick forest like that which grew only in
their ravines or beyond the foot of the valley. The defrost towers
looked down on multicolored autumn foliage, even in the bottom of the
valley where everything should be green.

Why weren't there fruit trees for the defrosters to protect? What kind
of a crop did this valley grow? Henry scrambled to his feet.

Theta looked up at him. "What...?"

"I'm going down there."

"What for?"

"To see what they grow. What kind of people they are."

"They might...."

He smiled down at her. "I've become an expert at not being seen," he
assured her. "I've had them pass five feet away."

Theta got up. "I'm coming, too."

They reached the force fence, but there was no irritation. The forest
started immediately and it was fairly clear of underbrush. There were
no paths to be seen, no sounds of harvesters, no unfamiliar trees. Even
on the floor of the valley there were no signs of life, although they
had seen and avoided several houses.

Henry stopped suddenly, staring ahead.

"What's the matter?" Theta asked.

Wordlessly Henry pointed to the bole of a dead and rotting tree. Its
straight trunk had branches coming out of it in orderly rings, its top
cut off to make the branches spread at ladder distance above the ground.

It leaned drunkenly against a supporting tree.

"Avocado," he said. "This was once a grove."

The normal fear of the unfamiliar swept over Theta. "I want to get out
of here. It scares me," she quavered.

Henry glanced up at the sun. "Too late to cross over now," he said.
"We'll find a house."

He turned and looked about. There should be one close, on the slope of
the ridge so as not to take up useable land. He sighted one and made
for it. From the outside it looked no different from those in their own
valley.

Beside it was an old apple tree with some emaciated fruit on it. At
least they wouldn't starve. As the house was obviously empty he went
around to the back, got a picking ladder off the rack and plucked
enough fruit to fill their pouches, although it was unflavorable. Not
until then did they venture to the front door and push it open.

       *       *       *       *       *

As far as they could see it was like the houses in their valley, only
it was cold, with a chill dampness. Light gray dust covered everything;
cobwebs festooned the walls. That it had not been lived in for years,
perhaps generations, was evident. Theta clung to his arm, shivering and
afraid. Henry shook her off. He strode to the kitchen and pulled open a
bin. In the bottom was dust, smelling faintly of peaches.

"We'll clean out a bedroom for the night," he said, re-entering the
living room.

In the bedroom the westerly sun poured light through a dust-covered
window, putting the bed somewhat in shadow. It, too, was covered with
dust, turning the everlasting blankets into a color uniform with the
room. Their movements stirred up dust that danced as motes in the
streaming sunlight as if to bar their way across the room. They walked
into it. Their eyes could now see clearly what was beyond.

Theta screamed and sprang back.

Protruding beyond the upper edges of the blankets were two skulls!

They were outside, breathing heavily, before they realized they had
moved. Henry stared at the still open door, at the black hole through
the white wall. It was the first time they had seen the aftermath of
death. For their people, there were places into which bodies were
placed. From them they vanished like all other refuse.

Shaken by the horror of it, they plunged into the forest in panic.

The sun dropped behind the ridge; the air chilled. Bones or no bones
they had to find shelter for the night. Fire, naked flame, they never
had seen or knew existed. Heat came from the walls of houses, with warm
clothing and blankets.

Henry's lips firmed. Dead ones or no dead ones, they had to find
something to keep them warm during the night.

Another house appeared. With fast beating hearts they entered. It was
now warmer inside, but still chilly. They would still need coverings.

"Stay here," Henry said.

He strode into the nearest bedroom. Without stopping to look around, he
stepped to the bed. Closing his eyes, he snatched off the bedding and
fled into the livingroom.

Together, crouched in a corner, the bedding around them, they spent the
night.

Sleep did not come immediately. Henry stared into the darkness,
reviewing the day, putting together what he had discovered.

"It all fits," he said aloud.

"What does?" Theta asked.

"The forest, the dead trees, dead people. Something happened to
everything, perhaps all at once. To the defrosters, the heaters, the
bins. It must have been in winter. They crept into bed to keep warm,
then starved to death. All of them."

"No, no!" Theta cried.

"But it did. And it's beginning to happen to us. Each year something
stops working. The time may come when nothing works."

"We can't do anything...."

"Yes, we can."

"What?"

"Find out why--and try to stop it!"


III

At dawn, stiff and shivering, they stumbled outside and by unspoken
consent started directly up the slope.

By full daylight they found themselves in a chestnut grove. They
stopped to fill their pouches. The last mile was made in the hot warmth
of the sun. At the top of the ridge they stopped to rest.

As they did, they feasted their eyes on the orderly groves below them.
But Henry's eyes were seeking out the squares of brown among the green
of the lower valley. He counted twenty. Far more than he realized. The
defrosters had gone dead at intervals, years apart.

His eyes crept up the valley to the structure at its head, with the
captive lake behind it. It must be the House of the Old Ones the old
stories told about but no one had ever seen. From it they had worked
the magic that made the valley what it was. There, they said, they
could be seen and heard to speak.

If he could get to see the Old Ones, ask them questions, perhaps they
would tell him what should be done.

"Where are we going now?" Theta asked.

"To the House of the Old Ones. Up there," he said, pointing. "Perhaps
they can tell us something."

She clutched his arm. "You can't!" she cried. "They'll ... they'll...."

"They'll what?"

"I don't know! Something awful!"

"That's what they said about the learning house, but there was nothing
in it but dust. I found, from the size of the chairs, that you had to
start learning almost from the time you walked. I didn't even know how
to start!"

"Then you didn't learn anything?"

"Nothing."

He came to his feet. "You don't have to go if you don't want to."

"I go where you go," she said with stubborn determination.

They had to dip down below the force fence to find water, then keep
to the harvested portions where the Masters had gone to Town for the
winter. They were lucky in finding houses where the keys had been lost,
and thus had been left unlocked.

It was noon the next day when they forced themselves through the
brush to find themselves within feet of their destination. With Henry
leading they skirted it, looking for an entrance. Close to the center
they found a deep indentation with a pair of doors at its inner end.
Cautiously, over the accumulated leaves and rubble, they moved toward
them, wondering how to get inside.

The moment Henry came within three feet of them they flew open, inwards.

Theta screamed and sprang back. Henry stopped, startled.

"It's nothing to be scared of," he reassured her. "They say that the
doors of Hall in Town used to open this way until someone broke a glass
button on the wall. Come on."

There was another pair of glass doors that opened the same way as they
approached. They led to a large reception room with a desk and chair
opposite the door, chairs in a row along the wall. The floor was red
tile, with a white line, about six inches wide, circling around to a
door to the left.

Behind the desk was another door.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sightseers," said a voice from out of nowhere that made Theta scream,
"will follow the white line through the door to the left. Those with
business in the offices will consult the receptionist. Please proceed."

Almost in a state of trance, Henry led the way along the white line.
The door opened and admitted them, then a second door.

Here everything was spotless, dustless, though no one had been there
for years.

"You are now in the generating room," the voice began again. "The
humidity is zero. All dirt and dust has been removed. What you bring in
with you will be gone in five minutes."

They were on a balcony, looking down into a large space. On the
floor below them seemed to be a huge cylinder, suspended between two
metal-covered blocks. Only by the glimmering reflections from its
polished surface could one tell that it was revolving.

"Before you is the main generator," the voice began again. "If you
look closely you will note that the armature shaft does not touch its
supporting bearings. It is held in suspension by polarized barumal
obtained from Mars, so there is no friction and no wear. It is powered
by water reduced to hydrogen and oxygen. The excess gases are used
in the hoppers and storage bins to force out the air and preserve
the foods on their way to their destinations. Some gas is piped to
the disposal plants, in which all organic matter is converted into
fertilizer."

Henry felt let down, cheated. It was just an empty building containing
soundless machinery and a recorded lecture. No Old Ones. Nothing he
wanted.

"Now behind you," the voice began again, "you can see into the
Control Room. From there every machine, store or house can have its
power cut on or off. And if anything goes wrong with its circuit a
button on the board flashes red until it is repaired. The glowing red
button close to the window is the master switch that will shut off
everything in case of an emergency, such as an earthquake."

Theta pressed her nose to the glass window. "Just think," she breathed,
"push that and everything stops!"

Perhaps that's what happened in the other valley, thought Henry.
Someone pushed the red button ... then couldn't get things going again.

"Now follow the line to the next room and be seated. There you will
be shown how the complex of the valley was constructed and how it
operates."

On entering the hall they found several rows of seats facing a large
screen. Soft music began as they entered. The hall darkened and the
screen lit up, showing the valley as it was before the work began.
Forest mainly, a few farms scattered along the narrow bottoms.

What startled Henry was that they were _above_ the valley, looking down
as they seemed to drift through the air. So the old tales were right!
The Old Ones could fly through the air! Here was proof of it.

He sat on the edge of his seat, breathing hard, waiting to see the Old
Ones, giant of stature, who could tear a tree out of the ground or
shovel away a mountain.

But the first humans he saw were men like himself and those in the
valley. Men who pointed at places while others squinted in that
direction through strange instruments. He wished he could follow the
talk, but the men pronounced words differently and used many he had
never heard. He had to use his eyes instead of his ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

They started to work right where he was--he recognized the outlines of
the ridges about them--but it was done by no giant extending his hand
and showering magic. Big machines dug away the ground. Other things
with no visible means of locomotion brought building materials up a
broad road where there was not even a path now. A little man, graying
and wrinkled, answered questions of their invisible guide, and, as he
did, he gave directions to others. Was he one of the Old Ones, not as
large as himself, no older than his father?

Behind him on the screen the building Henry was in was going up. And
men were making it, ordinary men, not magic.

Were the Old Ones just ordinary men, their magic not strange words and
motions but machines they manipulated with their hands and feet? They
were not gods, just men who had begun to learn sitting in the little
chairs in the learning house.

He watched them dig the trenches from the groves-to-be to the hidden
storage bins, put in the pipes lined with gravity-repellent barumal,
lay the snakelike cables that he had seen occasionally where erosion
had exposed them. He saw the building of Town, the Master's houses and
the final planting of the groves. The record ended.

Henry remained staring at the blank screen until Theta nudged him and
brought him back to the present.

The white line led on, past large offices on one side, on the other
windows looking down into a vast storeroom that contained parts for
repairing everything in the valley. The Old Ones knew that, some day,
things would start breaking down and had prepared for it. They had not
prepared for life dropping into routine, interest in progress being
lost.

What need was there to spend years in school when everything was
already done for you?

The picture had shown some buildings close to the cliffs on one side
that looked like the apartment houses in Town. They broke through the
brush and found one.

Other than for dust it was in good condition. The food bins were
filled, but the contents had dried to the hardness of stone. As soon as
they were emptied they began to refill; but it was two days of constant
emptying before eatable fruit began to appear.

By the end of a week they had the rooms they needed cleaned and some of
the brush about the place cut clear.

It left Henry free to roam the plant. He sat again and again through
the record of construction, understanding a little more each time. He
noted, for instance, where what was now forest at the entrance to the
valley was once farmland, laid out in squarish, varicolored fields. He
found his way into the control room, discovered how to trace the lines
from the board to their end on the large map on the wall across from
the board.

One day, while it was snowing heavily above the permanent defrosters,
he heard a buzzer sound and saw a light turn from green to red. He
traced it down. It was the damaged house where they had first taken
refuge.

There was plenty of time to ponder. Each time it ended in the same
question and the same conclusion. Something had to be begun before it
was too late. The valley had to be stirred out of its antipathy.

But how?

One morning, before dawn, he sat up in bed. Theta asked what was wrong.

"I'm going to the meeting in Town at Peach Blossom Time," he announced.
"Something has to be done."

Theta clutched his arm. "You can't! They'll kill you!"

"I have to! Do you want our children, or our children's children, to
die like those people on the other side of the ridge?"

"No, but...."

"I have to go--have to make them listen."


IV

The Peach Blossom Time Meeting was always the best in the year. Those
not already in Town were on the nearby bottom groves. After it, the
Masters would return to the upper orchards, and the youth work parties
would start their rounds. During the three-day meeting there would be
dances and parties, an exchange of news while the assembled Elders
would judge disputes, pass on the qualifications of Masters, deposing
the lazy and unfit, selecting couples to take their places. It was the
one time of the year when Henry could get the ear of everyone.

They traveled down unseen, slipping into unlocked houses for food and
the night. They entered Town at the beginning of the first meeting.
They made it unrecognized to the Hall.

It was not crowded. The day was bland; most preferred to stay outside
and watch the proceedings on the visiscreen. Henry and Theta slipped
into a section to one side and awaited the clearance of the immediate
business of the Elders.

There was none, of importance. Within an hour all that was pending was
cleared up. The Senior Elder, emaciated and with shaking hands, faced
the audience.

"Any further business?" he quavered.

Henry stood up. "Yes," he called out. "Something very important."

Theta fully intended to follow him, but she found she could not move.
It was as if she was tied to the chair. The more practical of the two,
she knew that the men he was facing would refuse to face the facts. All
he was doing was placing himself in their hands. And that meant death!

The elders peered in his direction as he gained the aisle. Ole twisted
about in his seat and was the first one to recognize him. For a moment
he stared open-mouthed.

"It's Henry Callis!" he cried out. "He's proscribed for learning
witchery! Grab him!"

Henry stopped before him. Ole's words became a gurgle and dried up.

"If I'm a witch," Henry said loudly, "I'm a good person to keep away
from. Whether I am or not, I have something important to tell you. And
all of you had better listen!"

He started again for the platform, those along the aisle shrinking back
as he passed. The Elders, from fat to withered, with the same uneasy
expressions on their faces, watched silently as he climbed to the stage
and faced them. He could feel their chill hostility. He knew now that
he had done wrong but it was too late to undo it. He stopped a short
distance from their table, half turned so the audience could hear him.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have been living in the houses of the Old Ones at the head of the
valley, beyond the defrosters and the forest above them. And I also
have been up to the top of the East Range, expecting to look over the
edge of the world. But what I saw was another valley just like this
one. It had a force fence, defrosters, hoppers, houses. Everything this
valley has, except for one thing: living inhabitants. There were people
in the houses. Dead people. Reduced to bones, the bones of people who
had died from hunger and cold when everything in their valley suddenly
ceased to work.

"That is what sent me to the House of the Old Ones, to see if I could
find out what had happened. I found out there that the Old Ones were
not giants who did things with magic, but people like ourselves who
used machinery to make things. Just as we make clothing with machinery
here in Town. They had machines that could fly through the air. They
could go the length of the valley in an hour in a road machine. With
machines they built these buildings, dug the trenches for the hoppers,
did everything. They were just men. Men who had studied in the learning
houses from the time they were tiny children. And I found out more...."

He stopped to take a quick look about the still hall. He felt the
hostility.

"And I found out more," he repeated. "I found that, in this valley,
twenty banks of defrosters have already failed. Eleven houses cannot
be used, plus two taverns and one factory here in town. It shows that
our own system is breaking down. Some day--perhaps tomorrow, perhaps
not until the time of our grandchildren--everything will stop as it
did in the next valley. If we want to keep living, we must start to
learn how to keep these machines running. At the House of the Old Ones
there is a vast store of parts and visigraph records showing how it
should be done. I ask you all to come up and see the record they have
there of building the things in the valley! See the machine that keeps
everything running. Then let me have a band of youths to start studying
the records until we find out how to keep things running."

There was silence after he finished. The Elders eyed him, uneasy,
suspicious.

From the seats of the hall came Ole's voice.

"Don't believe him!" he shouted. "He wants to get us up there so he can
bewitch us--like he did Theta! Take him out and stone him!"

Someone on the other side of the hall echoed the cry. In a moment it
seemed that everyone was roaring it, rising in their seats, shaking
fists. The Senior Elder motioned to the Hallmaster. He stepped forward
with two husky assistants who grabbed Henry.

"Put him in the strong room," quavered the Senior Elder. "Keep him
there until the day for punishment."

Roughly Henry was pushed around, led out a rear door to the stage. The
day of punishment! Three nights and two days to live!

       *       *       *       *       *

He awoke the morning of the third night feeling cold. He opened his
eyes to find himself in total darkness.

For a moment he thought himself free, hiding out in some deserted
building, that all that had happened lately was a dream. But from
outside he heard a panicky voice crying that the lights in his
apartment were out and it was getting cold.

It had happened! Far sooner than he expected, it had happened!

But what would Theta do? She had gotten away, he was sure, as no one
mentioned her. Theta, that was it! She had gone to the plant, pushed
the button, condemning herself and all the others to death! But that
was not like Theta. She was too clever....

That was it! Why hadn't he thought of it! It was a message, a
challenge, a tool which he could use to free himself--get them to help
him!

More relaxed, he lay back. Dawn was already showing up over the ridge.
More people would be getting up, more people rushing out into the
streets in panic. They would remember him, come to his cell imploring
him to do something. He would demand what he wanted. They could
comply--or face disaster.

What should he demand?

Someone came down the street shouting for the Senior Elder. The volume
of excited voices increased with each minute: voices demanding to know
why there was no light, no heat, no water. Asking each other if they
had them. Hysteria mounting each minute.

Perhaps it would be a time before they thought of him, but they would
be before him before the day was over.

"It's that witch in the strong room!" bellowed Ole's voice outside. "He
did it by magic! Kill him before he strikes us all dead!"

The cry was taken up, "The witch, kill the witch! He did it! He is
right in there, kill him!"

Cold terror seized Henry.

Theta's scheme was backfiring! There would be no reasoning with a
superstitious, hysterical mob! Well, at least it hurried things up by a
few hours. More composed, he came to his feet as they burst through the
back door of the Hall and stampeded towards the door to the cell.

He even smiled slightly. If they thought him a witch....

The key was in the lock. They had no difficulty getting in. He stood in
the center of the room, the slight smile still on his lips.

He raised his forearm to a horizontal position, pointed his index
finger in their direction.

"Who wants to die first?" he cried above the noise they made.

The onrush into the cell stopped abruptly, those in front pushing back
against those behind them. They followed his finger with fascinated
eyes as he fanned it across the group of them. He stopped, his finger
pointing to a fat, applecheeked grovemaster. The man shrieked, turned
about and began fighting his way back into the corridor.

One man was tripped up and fell. There was a wild shriek of terror. Men
shouted that he was killing the leaders by magic. To Henry it seemed
only an instant before the passageway was back in its usual silence. He
stepped out of his cell. He could see a mass of people about the street
door surrounding the panicked men. The passage in the other direction
seemed empty.

He turned that way, passed onto the rear of the stage, felt his way
across it in the darkness to the steps and down into the aisle. Calmly
and without haste he passed through the front doors into the next
street and walked, unrecognized in the half light and excitement, out
of town.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was dark when he arrived in the upper valley.

Theta was sitting at a table. She sprang up and rushed into his arms
with a glad cry.

"It worked! They let you go?"

He looked about. "You turned the power back on?"

"No. The plant and these buildings have a separate power source of
their own. I wasn't going to touch it until I knew you were safe."

He drew an apple from a bin and munched it. "We'd better turn things on
again before the fruit spoils. Come on...."

The button, Henry knew, turned on as well as off. Henry pressed down
the button, stepped back to watch the large battery of lights flash
on, but nothing happened. Had Theta somehow wrecked--ah! The red
buttons all began to glow again. Then, a minute later, a bank of lights
switched to green, then another and another. But Henry noted that an
occasional light did not change.

Within the hour the board was lighted up completely.

Henry could barely stumble back to his quarters as the reaction set in
compounded with disappointment. He flung himself on his bed.

"I have failed," he kept muttering. "I have failed in everything. They
won't listen. No one will!"

Theta wisely kept silent and covered him up.

On the second day they heard the sound of a group breaking their way
through the forest. They slipped into the brush, ready to retire to a
hiding place they had ready. But the dozen people who appeared in the
clearing did not have the look of a vengeful mob. Several were almost
elderly, some were boys, two were young women.

Henry stepped into the open, but not too close to them. "What do you
want?" he demanded.

They looked at each other, waiting for the other to speak first.

"What do you want?" Henry directed his question to an elderly
grovemaster.

"I want to know what's happening," he began. "My hopper has stopped
working, my defrosters were dimming. They blame me...."

A young man, strong, with alert eyes, stepped forward. "You are right
about that other valley," he said. "I have been in it myself. I don't
want that to happen here. I want to learn."

"I do too!" shrilled one of the teenagers. "I sneaked into a learning
house, too, but I couldn't understand."

The others gave their reasons, all varied, but with the same intent:
they wanted to learn. Sometimes how to repair an individual object,
others longed for general knowledge. But they were willing to face the
rest of the valley with him to get it.

Henry took a deep, happy breath. There would be others. Slowly but
surely the group would grow.

"Come in," he said. "Rest and eat. Then we'll start making plans."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Valley of the Masters, by 
Charles Minor Blackford

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF THE MASTERS ***

***** This file should be named 61055.txt or 61055.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/0/5/61055/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
