The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Expendables, by Jim Harmon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Expendables

Author: Jim Harmon

Release Date: January 14, 2020 [EBook #61171]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE EXPENDABLES ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE EXPENDABLES

                             BY JIM HARMON

                    It was just a little black box,
                   useful for getting rid of things.
                   Trouble was, it worked too well!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Worlds of If Science Fiction, May 1962.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"You see my problem, Professor?" Tony Carmen held his pinkly manicured,
flashily ringed hands wide.

I saw his problem and it was warmly embarrassing.

"Really, Mr. Carmen," I said, "this isn't the sort of thing you discuss
with a total stranger. I'm not a doctor--not of medicine, anyway--or a
lawyer."

"They can't help me. I need an operator in your line."

"I work for the United States government. I can't become involved in
anything illegal."

Carmen smoothed down the front of his too-tight midnight blue suit and
touched the diamond sticking in his silver tie. "You can't, Professor
Venetti? Ever hear of the Mafia?"

"I've heard of it," I said uneasily. "An old fraternal organization
something like the Moose or Rosicrucians, founded in Sicily. It
allegedly controls organized crime in the U.S. But that is a
responsibility-eluding myth that honest Italian-Americans are stamping
out. We don't even like to see the word in print."

"I can understand _honest_ Italian-Americans feeling that way. But guys
like me know the Mafia is still with it. We can put the squeeze on
marks like you pretty easy."

You don't have to tell even a third generation American about the
Mafia. Maybe that was the trouble. I had heard too much and for too
long. All the stories I had ever heard about the Mafia, true or false,
built up an unendurable threat.

"All right, I'll try to help you, Carmen. But ... that is, you didn't
kill any of these people?"

He snorted. "I haven't killed anybody since early 1943."

"Please," I said weakly. "You needn't incriminate yourself with me."

"I was in the Marines," Carmen said hotly. "Listen, Professor, these
aren't no Prohibition times. Not many people get made for a hit these
days. Mother, most of these bodies they keep ditching at my club
haven't been murdered by anybody. They're accident victims. Rumbums
with too much anti-freeze for a summer's day, Spanish-American War vets
going to visit Teddy in the natural course of events. Harry Keno just
stows them at my place to embarrass me. Figures to make me lose my
liquor license or take a contempt before the Grand Jury."

"I don't suppose you could just go to the police--" I saw the answer in
his eyes. "No. I don't suppose you could."

"I told you once, Professor, but I'll tell you again. I have to get rid
of these bodies they keep leaving in my kitchen. I can take 'em and
throw them in the river, sure. But what if me or my boys are stopped en
route by some tipped badge?"

"Quicklime?" I suggested automatically.

"What are you talking about? Are you sure you're some kind of
scientist? Lime doesn't do much to a stiff at all. Kind of putrifies
them like...."

"I forgot," I admitted. "I'd read it in so many stories I'd forgotten
it wouldn't work. And I suppose the furnace leaves ashes and there's
always traces of hair and teeth in the garbage disposal... An
interesting problem, at that."

"I figured you could handle it," Carmen said, leaning back comfortably
in the favorite chair of my bachelor apartment. "I heard you were
working on something to get rid of trash for the government."

"That," I told him, "is restricted information. I subcontracted that
work from the big telephone laboratories. How did you find it out?"

"Ways, Professor, ways."

The government did want me to find a way to dispose of
wastes--radioactive wastes. It was the most important problem any
country could have in this time of growing atomic industry. Now a
small-time gangster was asking me to use this research to help him
dispose of hot corpses. It made my scientific blood seethe. But the
shadow of the Black Hand cooled it off.

"Maybe I can find something in that area of research to help you," I
said. "I'll call you."

"Don't take too long, Professor," Carmen said cordially.

       *       *       *       *       *

The big drum topped with a metallic coolie's hat had started out as a
neutralizer for radioactivity. Now I didn't know what to call it.

The AEC had found burying canisters of hot rubbish in the desert or
in the Gulf had eventually proved unsatisfactory. Earth tremors or
changes of temperature split the tanks in the ground, causing leaks.
The undersea containers rusted and corroded through the time, poisoning
fish and fishermen.

Through the SBA I had been awarded a subcontract to work on the
problem. The ideal solution would be to find a way to neutralize
radioactive emanations, alpha, beta, X et cetera. (No, my dear, et
cetera rays aren't any more dangerous than the rest.) But this is
easier written than done.

Of course, getting energy to destroy energy without producing energy or
matter is a violation of the maxim of the conservation of energy. But
I didn't let that stop me--any more than I would have let the velocity
of light put any limitations on a spacecraft engine had I been engaged
to work on one. You can't allow other people's ideas to tie you hand
and foot. There are some who tell me, however, that my refusal to honor
such time-tested cliches is why I only have a small private laboratory
owned by myself, my late wife's father and the bank, instead of
working in the vast facilities of Bell, Du Pont, or General Motors. To
this, I can only smile and nod.

But even refusing to be balked by conservative ideas, I failed.

I could not neutralize radioactivity. All I had been able to do (by a
basic disturbance in the electromagnetogravitational co-ordinant system
for Earth-Sun) was to reduce the mass of the radioactive matter.

This only concentrated the radiations, as in boiling contaminated
water. It did make the hot stuff vaguely easier to handle, but it was
no breakthrough on the central problem.

Now, in the middle of this, I was supposed to find a way to get rid of
some damned bodies for Carmen.

Pressed for time and knowing the results wouldn't have to be so
precise or carefully defined for a racketeer as for the United States
government, I began experimenting.

I cut corners.

I bypassed complete safety circuits.

I put dangerous overloads on some transformers and doodled with the
wiring diagrams. If I got some kind of passable incinerator I would be
happy.

I turned the machine on.

The lights popped out.

There were changes that should be made before I tried that again, but
instead I only found a larger fuse for a heavier load and jammed that
in the switchbox.

I flipped my machine into service once again. The lights flickered and
held.

The dials on my control board told me the story. It was hard to take.

But there it was.

The internal Scale showed zero.

I had had a slightly hot bar of silver alloy inside. It was completely
gone. Mass zero. The temperature gauge showed that there had been
no change in centigrade reading that couldn't be explained by the
mechanical operation of the machine itself. There had been no sudden
discharge of electricity or radioactivity. I checked for a standard
anti-gravity effect but there was none. Gravity inside the cylinder had
gone to zero but never to minus.

I was at last violating conservation of energy--not by successfully
inverting the cube of the ionization factor, but by destroying mass ...
by simply making it cease to exist with no cause-and-effect side
effects.

I knew the government wouldn't be interested, since I couldn't explain
how my device worked. No amount of successful demonstration could ever
convince anybody with any scientific training that it actually did work.

But I shrewdly judged that Tony Carmen wouldn't ask an embarrassing
"how" when he was incapable of understanding the explanation.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yeah, but how does it work?" Tony Carmen demanded of me, sleeking his
mirror-black hair and staring up at the disk-topped drum.

"Why do you care?" I asked irritably. "It will dispose of your bodies
for you."

"I got a reason that goes beyond the stiff, but let's stick to that
just for now. _Where are these bodies going?_ I don't want them winding
up in the D.A.'s bathtub."

"Why not? How could they trace them back to you?"

"You're the scientist," Tony said hotly. "I got great respect for those
crime lab boys. Maybe the stiff got some of my exclusive brand of talc
on it, I don't know."

"Listen here, Carmen," I said, "what makes you think these bodies are
going somewhere? Think of it only as a kind of--incinerator."

"Not on your life, Professor. The gadget don't get hot so how can it
burn? It don't use enough electricity to fry. It don't cut 'em up
or crush 'em down, or dissolve them in acid. I've seen disappearing
cabinets before."

Mafia or not, I saw red. "Are you daring to suggest that I am working
some trick with trap doors or sliding panels?"

"Easy, Professor," Carmen said, effortlessly shoving me back with one
palm. "I'm not saying you have the machine rigged. It's just that
you have to be dropping the stuff through a sliding panel in--well,
everything around us. You're sliding all that aside and dropping things
through. But I want to know where they wind up. Reasonable?"

Carmen was an uneducated lout and a criminal but he had an instinctive
feel for the mechanics of physics.

"I don't know where the stuff goes, Carmen," I finally admitted. "It
might go into another plane of existence. 'Another dimension' the
writers for the American Weekly would describe it. Or into our past, or
our future."

The swarthy racketeer pursed his lips and apparently did some rapid
calculation.

"I don't mind the first two, but I don't like them going into the
future. If they do that, they may show up again in six months."

"Or six million years."

"You'll have to cut that future part out, Professor."

I was beginning to get a trifle impatient. All those folk tales I had
heard about the Mafia were getting more distant. "See here, Carmen, I
could lie to you and say they went into the prehistoric past and you
would never know the difference. But the truth is, I just don't know
where the processed material goes. There's a chance it may go into
the future, yes. But unless it goes exactly one year or exactly so
many years it would appear in empty space ... because the earth will
have moved from the spot it was transmitted. I don't know for sure.
Perhaps the slight Deneb-ward movement of the Solar System would wreck
a perfect three-point landing even then and cause the dispatched
materials to burn up from atmospheric friction, like meteors. You will
just have to take a chance on the future. That's the best I can do."

Carmen inhaled deeply. "Okay. I'll risk it. Pretty long odds against
any squeal on the play. How many of these things can you turn out,
Professor?"

"I can construct a duplicate of this device so that you may destroy the
unwanted corpses that you would have me believe are delivered to you
with the regularity of the morning milk run."

The racketeer waved that suggestion aside. "I'm talking about a big
operation, Venetti. These things can take the place of incinerators,
garbage disposals, waste baskets...."

"Impractical," I snorted. "You don't realize the tremendous amount of
electrical power these devices require...."

"Nuts! From what you said, the machine is like a TV set; it takes
a lot of power to get it started, but then on it coasts on its own
generators."

       *       *       *       *       *

"There's something to what you say," I admitted in the face of his
unexpected information. "But I can hardly turn my invention over to
your entirely persuasive salesmen, I'm sure. This is part of the
results of an investigation for the government. Washington will have
to decide what to do with the machine."

"Listen, Professor," Carmen began, "the Mafia--"

"What makes you think I'm any more afraid of the Mafia than I am of the
F.B.I.? I may have already sealed my fate by letting you in on this
much. Machinegunning is hardly a less attractive fate to me than a poor
security rating. To me, being dead professionally would be as bad as
being dead biologically."

Tony Carmen laid a heavy hand on my shoulder. I finally deduced he
intended to be cordial.

"Of course," he said smoothly "you have to give this to Washington but
there are _ways_, Professor. I know. I'm a business man--"

"You _are_?" I said.

He named some of the businesses in which he held large shares of stock.

"You _are_."

"I've had experience in this sort of thing. We simply _leak_ the
information to a few hundred well selected persons about all that your
machine can do. We'll call 'em Expendables, because they can expend
anything."

"I," I interjected, "planned to call it the Venetti Machine."

"Professor, who calls the radio the Marconi these days?"

"There are Geiger-Muller Counters, though," I said.

"You don't have to give a Geiger counter the sex appeal of a TV set or
a hardtop convertible. We'll call them Expendables. No home will be
complete without one."

"Perfect for disposing of unwanted bodies," I mused. "The murder rate
will go alarmingly with those devices within easy reach."

"Did that stop Sam Colt or Henry Ford?" Tony Carmen asked reasonably....

Naturally, I was aware that the government would _not_ be interested in
my machine. I am not a Fortean, a psychic, a psionicist or a screwball.
But the government frequently gets things it doesn't know what to do
with--like airplanes in the 'twenties. When it doesn't know what to do,
it doesn't do it.

There have been hundreds of workable perpetual motion machines
patented, for example. Of course, they weren't vices in the strictest
sense of the word. Many of them used the external power of gravity,
they would wear out or slow down in time from friction, but for the
meanwhile, for some ten to two hundred years they would just sit there,
moving. No one had ever been able to figure out what to do with them.

I knew the AEC wasn't going to dump tons of radioactive waste (with
some possible future reclaimation value) into a machine which they
didn't believe actually could work.

Tony Carmen knew exactly what to do with an Expendable once he got his
hands on it.

Naturally, that was what I had been afraid of.

       *       *       *       *       *

The closed sedan was warm, even in early December.

Outside, the street was a progression of shadowed block forms. I was
shivering slightly, my teeth rattling like the porcelain they were. Was
this the storied "ride," I wondered?

Carmen finally returned to the car, unlatched the door and slid in. He
did not reinsert the ignition key. I did not feel like sprinting down
the deserted street.

"The boys will have it set up in a minute," Tony the racketeer informed
me.

"What?" The firing squad?

"The Expendable, of course."

"Here? You dragged me out here to see how you have prostituted my
invention? I presume you've set it up with a 'Keep Our City Clean' sign
pasted on it."

He chuckled. It was a somewhat nasty sound, or so I imagined.

A flashlight winked in the sooty twilight.

"Okay. Let's go," Tony said, slapping my shoulder.

I got out of the car, rubbing my flabby bicep. Whenever I took my
teen-age daughter to the beach from my late wife's parents' home, I
frequently found 230 pound bullies did kick sand in my ears.

The machine was installed on the corner, half covered with a gloomy
white shroud, and fearlessly plugged into the city lighting system via
a blanketed streetlamp. Two hoods hovered in a doorway ready to take
care of the first cop with a couple of fifties or a single .38, as
necessity dictated.

Tony guided my elbow. "Okay, Professor, I think I understand the bit
now, but I'll let you run it up with the flagpole for me, to see how it
waves to the national anthem."

"Here?" I spluttered once more. "I told you, Carmen, I wanted nothing
more to do with you. Your check is still on deposit...."

"You didn't want anything to do with me in the first place." The thug's
teeth flashed in the night. "Throw your contraption into gear, buddy."

That was the first time the tone of respect, even if faked, had gone
out of his voice. I moved to the switchboard of my invention. What
remained was as simple as adjusting a modern floor lamp to a medium
light position. I flipped.

Restraining any impulse toward colloqualism, I was also deeply
disturbed by what next occurred.

One of the massive square shapes on the horizon vanished.

"What have you done?" I yelped, ripping the cover off the machine.

Even under the uncertain illumination of the smogged stars I could see
that the unit was half gone--in fact, exactly halved.

"Squint the Seal is one of my boys. He used to be a mechanic in the
old days for Burger, Madle, the guys who used to rob banks and stuff."
There was an unmistakable note of boyish admiration in Carmen's voice.
"He figured the thing would work like that. Separate the poles and you
increase the size of the working area."

"You mean square the operational field. Your idiot doesn't even know
mechanics."

"No, but he knows all about how any kind of machine works."

"You call that working?" I demanded. "Do you realize what you have
there, Carmen?"

"Sure. A disintegrator ray, straight out of _Startling Stories_."

My opinion as to the type of person who followed the pages of
science-fiction magazines with fluttering lips and tracing finger was
upheld.

I looked at the old warehouse and of course didn't see it.

"What was this a test for?" I asked, fearful of the Frankenstein I had
made. "What are you planning to do now?"

"This was no test, Venetti. This was it. I just wiped out Harry Keno
and his intimates right in the middle of their confidential squat."

"Good heavens. That's uncouthly old-fashioned of you, Carmen! Why,
that's _murder_."

"Not," Carmen said, "without no _corpus delecti_."

"The body of the crime remains without the body of the victim," I
remembered from my early Ellery Queen training.

"You're talking too much, Professor," Tony suggested. "Remember, _you_
did it with _your_ machine."

"Yes," I said at length. "And why are we standing here letting those
machines sit there?"

       *       *       *       *       *

There were two small items of interest to me in the Times the following
morning.

One two-inch story--barely making page one because of a hole to fill at
the bottom of an account of the number of victims of Indian summer heat
prostration--told of the incineration of a warehouse on Fleet Street by
an ingenious new arson bomb that left "virtually" no trace. (Maybe the
fire inspector had planted a few traces to make his explanation more
creditable.)

The second item was further over in a science column just off the
editorial page. It told of the government--!--developing a new process
of waste disposal rivaling the old Buck Rogers disintegrator ray.

This, I presumed, was one of Tony Carmen's information leaks.

If he hoped to arouse the public into demanding my invention I
doubted he would succeed. The public had been told repeatedly of a
new radioactive process for preserving food and a painless way of
spraying injections through the skin. But they were still stuck with
refrigerators and hypodermic needles.

I had forced my way half-way through the paper and the terrible coffee
I made when the doorbell rang.

I was hardly surprised when it turned out to be Tony Carmen behind the
front door.

He pushed in, slapping a rolled newspaper in his palm. "Action,
Professor."

"The district attorney has indicted you?" I asked hopefully.

"He's not even indicted _you_, Venetti. No, I got a feeler on this
plant in the _Times_."

I shook my head. "The government will take over the invention, no
matter what the public wants."

"The public? Who cares about the public? The Arcivox corporation wants
this machine of yours. They have their agents tracing the plant now.
They will go from the columnist to his legman to my man and finally to
you. Won't be long before they get here. An hour maybe."

"Arcivox makes radios and TV sets. What do they want with the
Expendables?"

"Opening up a new appliance line with real innovations. I hear they got
a new refrigerator. All open. Just shelves--no doors or sides. They
want a revolutionary garbage disposal too."

"Do you own stock in the company? Is that how you know?"

"I own stock in a competitor. That's how I know," Carmen informed me.
"Listen, Professor, you can sell to Arcivox and still keep control of
the patents through a separate corporation. And I'll give you 49% of
its stock."

This was Carmen's idea of a magnanimous offer for my invention. It
_was_ a pretty good offer--49% and my good health.

"But will the government let Arcivox have the machine for commercial
use?"

"The government would let Arcivox have the hydrogen bomb if they found
a commercial use for it."

There was a sturdy knock on the door, not a shrill ring of the bell.

"That must be Arcivox now," Carmen growled. "They have the best
detectives in the business. You know what to tell them?"

I knew what to tell them.

       *       *       *       *       *

I peeled off my wet shirt and threw it across the corner of my desk,
casting a reproving eye at the pastel air-conditioner in the window. It
wasn't really the machine's fault--The water department reported the
reservoir too low to run water-cooled systems. It would be a day or two
before I could get the gas type into my office.

Miss Brown, my secretary, was getting a good look at my pale, bony
chest. Well, for the salary she got, she could stand to look. Of
course, she herself was wearing a modest one-strap sun dress, not
shorts and halters like some of the girls.

"My," she observed "it certainly is humid for March, isn't it,
Professor Venetti?"

I agreed that it was.

She got her pad and pencil ready.

"Wheedling form letter to Better Mousetraps. Where are our royalties
for the last quarter of the year? We know we didn't have a full three
months with our Expendable Field in operation on the new traps, but we
want the payola for what we have coming.

"Condescending form letter to Humane Lethal Equipment. Absolutely do
not send the California penal system any chambers equipped with our
patented field until legislature officially approves them. We got away
with it in New Mexico, but we're older and wiser now.

"Rush priority telegram to President, United States, any time in
the next ten days. Thanks for citation, et cetera. Glad buddy system
working out well in training battlefield disintegrator teams.

"Indignant form letter to Arcivox. We do not feel we are properly a
co-respondent in your damage suits. Small children and appliances have
always been a problem, viz ice boxes and refrigerators. Suggest you put
a more complicated latch on the handles of the dangerously inferior
doors you have covering our efficient, patented field."

I leaned back and took a breather. There was no getting around it--I
just wasn't happy as a business man. I had been counting on being only
a figurehead in the Expendable Patent Holding Corporation, but Tony
Carmen didn't like office work. And he hadn't anyone he trusted any
more than me. Even.

I jerked open a drawer and pulled off a paper towel from the roll I
had stolen in the men's room. Scrubbing my chest and neck with it, I
smoothed it out and dropped it into the wastebasket. It slid down the
tapering sides and through the narrow slot above the Expendable Field.
I had redesigned the wastebaskets after a janitor had stepped in one.
But Gimpy was happy now, with the $50,000 we paid him.

I opened my mouth and Miss Brown's pencil perked up its eraser,
reflecting her fierce alertness.

Tony Carmen banged open the door, and I closed my mouth.

"G-men on the way here," he blurted and collapsed into a chair opposite
Miss Brown.

"Don't revert to type," I warned him. "What kind of G-Men? FBI? FCC?
CIA? FDA? USTD?"

"Investigators for the Atomic Energy Commission."

The solemn, conservatively dressed young man in the door touched the
edge of his snap-brim hat as he said it.

"Miss Brown, would you mind letting our visitor use your chair?" I
asked.

"Not at all, sir," she said dreamily.

"May I suggest," I said, "that we might get more business done if you
then removed yourself from the chair first."

Miss Brown leaped to her feet with a healthy galvanic response and quit
the vicinity with her usual efficiency.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once seated, the AEC man said "I'll get right to the point. You may
find this troublesome, gentlemen, but your government intends to
confiscate all of the devices using your so-called Expendable field,
and forever bar their manufacture in this country or their importation."

"You stinking G-men aren't getting away with this," Carmen said
ingratiatingly. "Ever hear of the Mafia?"

"Not much," the young man admitted earnestly, "since the FBI finished
with its deportations a few years back."

I cleared my throat. "I must admit that the destruction of a
multi-billion business is disconcerting before lunch. May we ask why
you took this step?"

The agent inserted a finger between his collar and tie. "Have you
noticed how unseasonably warm it is?"

"I wondered if you had. You're going to have heat prostration if you
keep that suit coat on five minutes more."

The young man collapsed back in his chair, loosening the top button of
his ivy league jacket, looking from my naked hide to the gossomer scrap
of sport shirt Carmen wore. "We have to dress inconspicuously in the
service," he panted weakly.

I nodded understandingly. "What does the heat have to do with the
outlawing of the Expendables?"

"At first we thought there might be some truth in the folk nonsense
that nuclear tests had something to do with raising the mean
temperature of the world," the AEC man said. "But our scientists
quickly found they weren't to blame."

"Clever of them."

"Yes, they saw that the widespread use of your machines was responsible
for the higher temperature. Your device violates the law of
conservation of energy, _seemingly_. It _seemingly_ destroys matter
without creating energy. Actually--"

He paused dramatically.

"Actually, your device added the energy it created in destroying matter
to the energy potential of the planet in the form of _heat_. You see
what that means? If your devices continue in operation, the mean
temperature of Earth will rise to the point where we burst into flame.
They must be outlawed!"

"I agree," I said reluctantly.

Tony Carmen spoke up. "No, you don't, Professor. We don't agree to
that."

I waved his protests aside.

"I _would_ agree," I said, "except that it wouldn't work. Explain the
danger to the public, let them feel the heat rise themselves, and they
will hoard Expendables against seizure and continue to use them, until
we do burst into flame, as you put it so religiously."

"Why?" the young man demanded.

"Because Expendables are convenient. There is a ban on frivolous use
of water due to the dire need. But the police still have to go stop
people from watering lawns, and I suspect not a few swimming pools are
being filled on the sly. Water is somebody else's worry. So will be
generating enough heat to turn Eden into Hell."

"Mass psychology isn't my strongest point," the young man said
worriedly. "But I suspect you may be right. Then--we'll be damned?"

"No, not necessarily," I told him comfortingly. "All we have to do is
_use up_ the excess energy with engines of a specific design."

"But can we design those engines in time?" the young man wondered with
uncharacteristic gloom.

"Certainly," I said, practising the power of positive thinking. "Now
that your world-wide testing laboratories have confirmed a vague fear
of mine, I can easily reverse the field of the Expendable device and
create a rather low-efficiency engine that consumes the excess energy
in our planetary potential."

       *       *       *       *       *

The agent of the AEC whose name I can never remember was present along
with Tony Carmen the night my assistants finished with the work I had
outlined.

While it was midnight outside, the fluorescents made the scene more
visible than sunlight. My Disexpendable was a medium-sized drum in a
tripod frame with an unturned coolie's hat at the bottom.

Breathlessly, I closed the switch and the scooped disc began slowly to
revolve.

"Is it my imagination," the agent asked, "or is it getting cooler in
here?"

"Professor." Carmen gave me a warning nudge.

There was now something on the revolving disc. It was a bar of some
shiny gray metal.

"Kill the power, Professor," Carmen said.

"Can it be," I wondered, "that the machine is somehow recreating or
drawing back the processed material from some other time or dimension?"

"Shut the thing off, Venetti!" the racketeer demanded.

But too late.

There was now a somewhat dead man sitting in the saddle of the turning
circle of metal.

If Harry Keno had only been sane when he turned up on that
merry-go-round in Boston I feel we would have learned much of immense
value on the nature of time and space.

As it is, I feel that it is a miscarriage of justice to hold me in
connection with the murders I am sure Tony Carmen did commit.

I hope this personal account when published will end the vicious
story supported by the district attorney that it was I who sought Tony
Carmen out and offered to dispose of his enemies and that I sought his
financial backing for the exploitation of my invention.

This is the true, and only true, account of the development of the
machine known as the Expendable.

I am only sorry, now that the temperature has been standardized once
more, that the Expendable's antithesis, the Disexpendable, is of too
low an order of efficiency to be of much value as a power source in
these days of nuclear and solar energy. So the world is again stuck
with the problem of waste disposal ... including all that I dumped
before. But as a great American once said, you can't win 'em all.

If you so desire, you may send your generous and fruitful letters
towards my upcoming defense in care of this civic-minded publication.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Expendables, by Jim Harmon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE EXPENDABLES ***

***** This file should be named 61171.txt or 61171.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/1/7/61171/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
