The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Big Headache, by Jim Harmon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Big Headache

Author: Jim Harmon

Release Date: January 24, 2020 [EBook #61228]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIG HEADACHE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           THE BIG HEADACHE

                             BY JIM HARMON

               What's the principal cause of headaches?
                    Why, having a head, of course!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1962.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


                                   I

"Do you think we'll have to use force on Macklin to get him to
cooperate in the experiment?" Ferris asked eagerly.

"How are you going to go about forcing him, Doctor?" Mitchell inquired.
"He outweighs you by fifty pounds and you needn't look to _me_ for help
against that repatriated fullback."

Ferris fingered the collar of his starched lab smock. "Guess I got
carried away for a moment. But Macklin is exactly what we need for a
quick, dramatic test. We've had it if he turns us down."

"I know," Mitchell said, exhaling deeply. "Somehow the men with the
money just can't seem to understand basic research. Who would have
financed a study of cyclic periods of the hedgehog? Yet the information
gained from that study is vital in cancer research."

"When we prove our results that should be of enough practical value for
anyone. But those crummy trustees didn't even leave us enough for a
field test." Ferris scrubbed his thin hand over the bony ridge of his
forehead. "I've been worrying so much about this I've got the ancestor
of all headaches."

Mitchell's blue eyes narrowed and his boyish face took on an expression
of demonic intensity. "Ferris, would you consider--?"

"No!" the smaller man yelled. "You can't expect me to violate
professional ethics and test my own discovery on myself."

"_Our_ discovery," Mitchell said politely.

"That's what I meant to say. But I'm not sure it would be completely
ethical with even a discovery partly mine."

"You're right. Besides who cares if you or I are cured of headaches?
Our reputations don't go outside our own fields," Mitchell said. "But
now Macklin--"

Elliot Macklin had inherited the reputation of the late Albert Einstein
in the popular mind. He was the man people thought of when the word
"mathematician" or even "scientist" was mentioned. No one knew whether
his Theory of Spatium was correct or not because no one had yet been
able to frame an argument with it. Macklin was in his early fifties but
looked in his late thirties, with the build of a football player. The
government took up a lot of his time using him as the symbol of the
Ideal Scientist to help recruit Science and Engineering Cadets.

For the past seven years Macklin--who _was_ the Advanced Studies
Department of Firestone University--had been involved in devising a
faster-than-light drive to help the Army reach Pluto and eventually the
nearer stars. Mitchell had overheard two coeds talking and so knew
that the project was nearing completion. If so, it was a case of _Ad
astra per aspirin_.

The only thing that could delay the project was Macklin's health.

Despite his impressive body, some years before he had suffered a mild
stroke ... or at least a vascular spasm of a cerebral artery. It was
known that he suffered from the vilest variety of migraine. A cycle of
the headaches had caused him to be absent from his classes for several
weeks, and there were an unusual number of military uniforms seen
around the campus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ferris paced off the tidy measurements of the office outside the
laboratory in the biology building. Mitchell sat slumped in the chair
behind the blond imitation wood desk, watching him disinterestedly.

"Do you suppose the Great Man will actually show up?" Ferris demanded,
pausing in mid-stride.

"I imagine he will," Mitchell said. "Macklin's always seemed a decent
enough fellow when I've had lunch with him or seen him at the trustees
meetings."

"He's always treated me like dirt," Ferris said heatedly. "Everyone on
this campus treats biologists like dirt. Sometimes I want to bash in
their smug faces."

Sometimes, Mitchell reflected, Ferris displayed a certain lack of
scientific detachment.

There came a discreet knock on the door.

"Please come in," Mitchell said.

Elliot Macklin entered in a cloud of pipe smoke and a tweed jacket. He
looked more than a little like a postgraduate student, and Mitchell
suspected that that was his intention.

He shook hands warmly with Mitchell. "Good of you to ask me over,
Steven."

Macklin threw a big arm across Ferris' shoulders. "How have you been,
Harold?"

Ferris' face flickered between pink and white. "Fine, thank you,
doctor."

Macklin dropped on the edge of the desk and adjusted his pipe. "Now
what's this about you wanting my help on something? And please keep the
explanation simple. Biology isn't my field, you know."

Mitchell moved around the desk casually. "Actually, Doctor, we haven't
the right to ask this of a man of your importance. There may be an
element of risk."

The mathematician clamped onto his pipe and showed his teeth. "Now you
have me intrigued. What is it all about?"

"Doctor, we understand you have severe headaches," Mitchell said.

Macklin nodded. "That's right, Steven. Migraine."

"That must be terrible," Ferris said. "All your fine reputation and
lavish salary can't be much consolation when that ripping, tearing
agony begins, can it?"

"No, Harold, it isn't," Macklin admitted. "What does your project have
to do with my headaches?"

"Doctor," Mitchell said, "what would you say the most common complaint
of man is?"

"I would have said the common cold," Macklin replied, "but I suppose
from what you have said you mean headaches."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Headaches," Mitchell agreed. "Everybody has them at some time in his
life. Some people have them every day. Some are driven to suicide by
their headaches."

"Yes," Macklin said.

"But think," Ferris interjected, "what a boon it would be if everyone
could be cured of headaches _forever_ by one simple injection."

"I don't suppose the manufacturers of aspirin would like you. But it
would please about everybody else."

"Aspirins would still be used to reduce fever and relieve muscular
pains," Mitchell said.

"I see. Are you two saying you _have_ such a shot? Can you cure
headaches?"

"We think we can," Ferris said.

"How can you have a specific for a number of different causes?" Macklin
asked. "I know that much about the subject."

"There _are_ a number of different causes for headaches--nervous
strain, fatigue, physical diseases from kidney complaints to tumors,
over-indulgence--but there is one _effect_ of all of this, the one real
cause of headaches," Mitchell announced.

"We have definitely established this for this first time," Ferris added.

"That's fine," Macklin said, sucking on his pipe. "And this effect that
produces headaches is?"

"The pressure effect caused by pituitrin in the brain," Mitchell
said eagerly. "That is, the constriction of blood vessels in the
telencephalon section of the frontal lobes. It's caused by an
over-production of the pituitary gland. We have artificially bred a
virus that feeds on pituitrin."

"That may mean the end of headaches, but I would think it would mean
the end of the race as well," Macklin said. "In certain areas it is
valuable to have a constriction of blood vessels."

"The virus," Ferris explained, "can easily be localized and stabilized.
A colony of virus in the brain cells will relax the cerebral
vessels--and only the cerebral vessels--so that the cerebrospinal fluid
doesn't create pressure in the cavities of the brain."

The mathematician took the pipe out of his mouth. "If this really
works, I could stop using that damned gynergen, couldn't I? The stuff
makes me violently sick to my stomach. But it's better than the
migraine. How should I go about removing my curse?" He reinserted the
pipe.

"I assure you, you can forget ergotamine tartrate," Ferris said. "Our
discovery will work."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Will work," Macklin said thoughtfully. "The operative word. It
_hasn't_ worked then?"

"Certainly it has," Ferris said. "On rats, on chimps...."

"But not on humans?" Macklin asked.

"Not yet," Mitchell admitted.

"Well," Macklin said. "Well." He thumped pipe ashes out into his palm.
"Certainly you can get volunteers. Convicts. Conscientious objectors
from the Army."

"We want you," Ferris told him.

Macklin coughed. "I don't want to overestimate my value but the
government wouldn't like it very well if I died in the middle of this
project. My wife would like it even less."

Ferris turned his back on the mathematician. Mitchell could see him
mouthing the word _yellow_.

"Doctor," Mitchell said quickly, "I know it's a tremendous favor to
ask of a man of your position. But you can understand our problem.
Unless we can produce quick, conclusive and dramatic proof of our
studies we can get no more financial backing. We _should_ run a
large-scale field test. But we haven't the time or money for that.
We can cure the headaches of one person and that's the limit of our
resources."

"I'm tempted," Macklin said hesitantly, "but the answer is go. I mean
'_no_'. I'd like to help you out, but I'm afraid I owe too much to
others to take the rest--the risk, I mean."

Macklin ran the back of his knuckles across his forehead. "I really
would like to take you up on it. When I start making slips like that it
means another attack of migraine. The drilling, grinding pain through
my temples and around my eyeballs. The flashes of light, the rioting
pools of color playing on the back of my lids. Ugh."

Ferris smiled. "Gynergen makes you sick, does it, doctor? Produces
nausea, eh? The pain of that turns you almost wrong side out, doesn't
it? You aren't much better off with it than without, are you? I've
heard some say they preferred the migraine."

Macklin carefully arranged his pipe along with the tools he used to
tend it in a worn leather case. "Tell me," he said, "what is the worst
that could happen to me?"

"Low blood pressure," Ferris said.

"That's not so bad," Macklin said. "How low can it get?"

"When your heart stops, your blood pressure goes to its lowest point,"
Mitchell said.

A dew of perspiration had bloomed on Macklin's forehead. "Is there much
risk of that?"

"Practically none," Mitchell said. "We have to give you the worst
possibilities. _All_ our test animals survived and seem perfectly happy
and contented. As I said, the virus is self-stabilizing. Ferris and I
are confident that there is no danger.... But we may be wrong."

Macklin held his head in both hands. "Why did you two select _me_?"

"You're an important man, doctor," Ferris said. "Nobody would care if
Mitchell or I cured ourselves of headaches--they might not even believe
us if we said we did. But the proper authorities will believe a man
of your reputation. Besides, neither of us has a record of chronic
migraine. You do."

"Yes, I do," Macklin said. "Very well. Go ahead. Give me your
injection."

Mitchell cleared his throat. "Are you positive, doctor?" he asked
uncertainly. "Perhaps you would like a few days to think it over."

"No! I'm ready. Go ahead, right now."

"There's a simple release," Ferris said smoothly.

Macklin groped in his pocket for a pen.


                                  II

"Ferris!" Mitchell yelled, slamming the laboratory door behind him.

"Right here," the small man said briskly. He was sitting at a work
table, penciling notes. "I've been expecting you."

"Doctor--Harold--you shouldn't have given this story to the
newspapers," Mitchell said. He tapped the back of his hand against the
folded paper.

"On the contrary, I should and I did," Ferris answered. "We wanted
something dramatic to show to the trustees and here it is."

"Yes, we wanted to show our proof to the trustees--but not broadcast
unverified results to the press. It's too early for that!"

"Don't be so stuffy and conservative, Mitchell! Macklin's cured, isn't
he? By established periodic cycle he should be suffering hell right
now, shouldn't he? But thanks to our treatment he is perfectly happy,
with no unfortunate side effects such as gynergen produces."

"It's a significant test case, yes. But not enough to go to the
newspapers with. If it wasn't enough to go to the press with, it wasn't
enough to try and breach the trustees with. Don't you see? The public
will hand down a ukase demanding our virus, just as they demanded the
Salk vaccine and the Grennell serum."

"But--"

The shrill call of the telephone interrupted Mitchell's objections.

Ferris excused himself and crossed to the instrument. He answered it
and listened for a moment, his face growing impatient.

"It's Macklin's wife," Ferris said. "Do you want to talk to her? I'm no
good with hysterical women."

"Hysterical?" Mitchell muttered in alarm and went to the phone.

"Hello?" Mitchell said reluctantly. "Mrs. Macklin?"

"You are the other one," the clear feminine voice said. "Your name is
Mitchell."

She couldn't have sounded calmer or more self-possessed, Mitchell
thought.

"That's right, Mrs. Macklin. I'm Dr. Steven Mitchell, Dr. Ferris's
associate."

"Do you have a license to dispense narcotics?"

"What do you mean by that, Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell said sharply.

"I used to be a nurse, Dr. Mitchell. I know you've given my husband
heroin."

"That's absurd. What makes you think a thing like that?"

"The--trance he's in now."

"Now, Mrs. Macklin. Neither Dr. Ferris or myself have been near your
husband for a full day. The effects of a narcotic would have worn off
by this time."

"Most known narcotics," she admitted, "but evidently you have
discovered something new. Is it so expensive to refine you and Ferris
have to recruit new customers to keep yourselves supplied?"

"Mrs. Macklin! I think I had better talk to you later when you are
calmer."

Mitchell dropped the receiver heavily. "What could be wrong with
Macklin?" he asked without removing his hand from the telephone.

Ferris frowned, making quotation marks above his nose. "Let's have a
look at the test animals."

Together they marched over to the cages and peered through the
honeycomb pattern of the wire. The test chimp, Dean, was sitting
peacefully in a corner scratching under his arms with the back of his
knuckles. Jerry, their control in the experiment, who was practically
Dean's twin except that he had received no injection of the E-M Virus,
was stomping up and down punching his fingers through the wire,
worrying the lock on the cage.

"Jerry _is_ a great deal more active than Dean," Mitchell said.

"Yes, but Dean isn't sick. He just doesn't seem to have as much nervous
energy to burn up. Nothing wrong with his thyroid either."

They went to the smaller cages. They found the situation with the rats,
Bud and Lou, much the same.

"I don't know. Maybe they just have tired blood," Mitchell ventured.

"Iron deficiency anemia?"

"Never mind, doctor. It was a form of humor. I think we had better see
exactly what is wrong with Elliot Macklin."

"There's nothing wrong with him," Ferris snapped. "He's probably just
trying to get us in trouble, the ingrate!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Macklin's traditional ranch house was small but attractive in
aqua-tinted aluminum.

Under Mitchell's thumb the bell chimbed _dum-de-de-dum-dum-dum_.

As they waited Mitchell glanced at Ferris. He seemed completely
undisturbed, perhaps slightly curious.

The door unlatched and swung back.

"Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell said quickly, "I'm sure we can help if there
is anything wrong with your husband. This is Dr. Ferris. I am Dr.
Mitchell."

"You had certainly _better_ help him, gentlemen." She stood out of the
doorway for them to pass.

Mrs. Macklin was an attractive brunette in her late thirties. She wore
an expensive yellow dress. And she had a sharp-cornered jawline.

The Army officer came out into the hall to meet them.

"You are the gentlemen who gave Dr. Macklin the unauthorized
injection," he said.

It wasn't a question.

"I don't like that 'unauthorized'," Ferris snapped.

The colonel--Mitchell spotted the eagles on his green tunic--lifted
a heavy eyebrow. "No? Are you medical doctors? Are you authorized to
treat illnesses?"

"We weren't treating an illness," Mitchell said. "We were discovering a
method of treatment. What concern is it of yours?"

The colonel smiled thinly. "Dr. Macklin is my concern. And everything
that happens to him. The Army doesn't like what you have done to him."

Mitchell wondered desperately just what they had done to the man.

"Can we see him?" Mitchell asked.

"Why not? You can't do much worse than murder him now. That might be
just as well. We have laws to cover that."

The colonel led them into the comfortable, over-feminine living room.
Macklin sat in an easy chair draped in embroidery, smoking. Mitchell
suddenly realized Macklin used a pipe as a form of masculine protest to
his home surroundings.

On the coffee table in front of Macklin were some odd-shaped building
blocks such as were used in nursery schools. A second uniformed
man--another colonel but with the snake-entwined staff of the medical
corps in his insignia--was kneeling at the table on the marble-effect
carpet.

The Army physician stood up and brushed his knees, undusted from the
scrupulously clean rug.

"What's wrong with him, Sidney?" the other officer asked the doctor.

"Not a thing," Sidney said. "He's the healthiest, happiest, most
well-adjusted man I've ever examined, Carson."

"But--" Colonel Carson protested.

"Oh, he's changed all right," the Army doctor answered. "He's not the
same man as he used to be."

"How is he different?" Mitchell demanded.

The medic examined Mitchell and Ferris critically before answering. "He
used to be a mathematical genius."

"And now?" Mitchell said impatiently.

"Now he is a moron," the medic said.


                                  III

Mitchell tried to stop Colonel Sidney as he went past, but the doctor
mumbled he had a report to make.

Mitchell and Ferris stared at Colonel Carson and Macklin and at each
other.

"What did he mean, Macklin is an idiot?" Mitchell asked.

"Not an idiot," Colonel Carson corrected primly. "Dr. Macklin is a
moron. He's legally responsible, but he's extremely stupid."

"I'm not so dumb," Macklin said defensively.

"I beg your pardon, sir," Carson said. "I didn't intend any offense.
But according to all the standard intelligence tests we have given you,
your clinical intelligence quotient is that of a moron."

"That's just on book learning," Macklin said. "There's a lot you learn
in life that you don't get out of books, son."

"I'm confident that's true, sir," Colonel Carson said. He turned to the
two biologists. "Perhaps we had better speak outside."

"But--" Mitchell said, impatient to examine Macklin for himself. "Very
well. Let's step into the hall."

Ferris followed them docilely.

"What have you done to him?" the colonel asked straightforwardly.

"We merely cured him of his headaches," Mitchell said.

"How?"

Mitchell did his best to explain the F-M Virus.

"You mean," the Army officer said levelly "you have infected him with
some kind of a disease to rot his brain?"

"No, no! Could I talk to the other man, the doctor? Maybe I can make
him understand."

"All I want to know is why Elliot Macklin has been made as simple as if
he had been kicked in the head by a mule," Colonel Carson said.

"I think I can explain," Ferris interrupted.

"You can?" Mitchell said.

Ferris nodded. "We made a slight miscalculation. It appears as if the
virus colony overcontrols the supply of posterior pituitary extract in
the cerebrum. It isn't more than necessary to stop headaches. But that
necessary amount of control to stop pain is too much to allow the brain
cells to function properly."

"Why won't they function?" Carson roared.

"They don't get enough food--blood, oxygen, hemoglobin," Ferris
explained. "The cerebral vessels don't contract enough to pump the
blood through the brain as fast and as hard as is needed. The brain
cells remain sluggish, dormant. Perhaps decaying."

The colonel yelled.

Mitchell groaned. He was abruptly sure Ferris was correct.

       *       *       *       *       *

The colonel drew himself to attention, fists trembling at his sides.
"I'll see you hung for treason! Don't you know what Elliot Macklin
means to us? Do you want those filthy Luxemburgians to reach Pluto
before we do? Macklin's formula is essential to the FTL engine. You
might just as well have blown up Washington, D.C. Better! The capital
is replaceable. But the chances of an Elliot Macklin are very nearly
once in a human race."

"Just a moment," Mitchell interrupted, "we can cure Macklin."

"You _can_?" Carson said. For a moment Mitchell thought the man was
going to clasp his hands and sink to his knees.

"Certainly. We have learned to stabilize the virus colonies. We have
antitoxin to combat the virus. We had always thought of it as a
beneficial parasite, but we can wipe it out if necessary."

"Good!" Carson clasped his hands and gave at least slightly at the
knees.

"Just you wait a second now, boys," Elliot Macklin said. He was leaning
in the doorway, holding his pipe. "I've been listening to what you've
been saying and I don't like it."

"What do you mean you don't like it?" Carson demanded. He added, "Sir?"

"I figure you mean to put me back like I used to be."

"Yes, doctor," Mitchell said eagerly, "just as you used to be."

"_With_ my headaches, like before?"

Mitchell coughed into his fist for an instant, to give him time to
frame an answer. "Unfortunately, yes. Apparently if your mind functions
properly once again you will have the headaches again. Our research is
a dismal failure."

"I wouldn't go that far," Ferris remarked cheerfully.

Mitchell was about to ask his associate what he meant when he saw
Macklin slowly shaking his head.

"No, sir!" the mathematician said. "I shall not go back to my original
state. I can remember what it was like. Always worrying, worrying,
worrying."

"You mean wondering," Mitchell said.

Macklin nodded. "Troubled, anyway. Disturbed by every little thing.
How high was up, which infinity was bigger than what infinity--say,
what was an infinity anyway? All that sort of schoolboy things. It's
peaceful this way. My head doesn't hurt. I've got a good-looking wife
and all the money I need. I've got it made. Why worry?"

Colonel Carson opened his mouth, then closed it.

"That's right, Colonel. There's no use in arguing with him," Mitchell
said.

"It's not his decision to make," the colonel said. "He's an idiot now."

"No, Colonel. As you said, he's a moron. He seems an idiot compared to
his former level of intelligence but he's legally responsible. There
are millions of morons running around loose in the United States. They
can get married, own property, vote, even hold office. Many of them
do. You can't force him into being cured.... At least, I don't _think_
you can."

"No, I can't. This is hardly a totalitarian state." The colonel looked
momentarily glum that it wasn't.

Mitchell looked back at Macklin. "Where did his wife get to, Colonel?
I don't think that even previously he made too many personal decisions
for himself. Perhaps she could influence him."

"Maybe," the colonel said. "Let's find her."

       *       *       *       *       *

They found Mrs. Macklin in the dining room, her face at the picture
window an attractive silhouette. She turned as the men approached.

"Mrs. Macklin," the colonel began, "these gentlemen believe they can
cure your husband of his present condition."

"Really?" she said. "Did you speak to Elliot about that?"

"Y-yes," Colonel Carson said, "but he's not himself. He refused the
treatment. He wants to remain in his state of lower intelligence."

She nodded. "If those are his wishes, I can't go against them."

"But Mrs. Macklin!" Mitchell protested. "You will have to get a court
order overruling your husband's wishes."

She smoothed an eyebrow with the third finger of her right hand. "That
was my original thought. But I've redecided."

"Redecided!" Carson burst out almost hysterically.

"Yes. I can't go against Elliot's wishes. It would be monstrous to put
him back where he would suffer the hell of those headaches once again,
where he never had a moment's peace from worry and pressure. He's happy
now. Like a child, but happy."

"Mrs. Macklin," the Army man said levelly, "if you don't help us
restore your husband's mind we will be forced to get a court order
declaring him incompetent."

"But he is not! Legally, I mean," the woman stormed.

"Maybe not. It's a borderline case. But I think any court would give us
the edge where restoring the mind of Elliot Macklin was concerned. Once
he's certified incompetent, authorities can rule whether Mitchell and
Ferris' antitoxin treatment is the best method of restoring Dr. Macklin
to sanity."

"I doubt very much if the court would rule in that manner," she said.

The colonel looked smug. "Why not?"

"Because, Colonel, the matter of my husband's health, his very life, is
involved."

"There is some degree of risk in shock treatments, too. But--"

"It isn't quite the same, Colonel. Elliot Macklin has a history of
vascular spasm, a mild pseudostroke some years ago. Now you want to
give those cerebral arteries back the ability to constrict. To
paralyze. To kill. No court would give you that authority."

"I suppose there's some chance of that. But without the treatment
there is _no_ chance of your husband regaining his right senses, Mrs.
Macklin," Mitchell interjected.

Her mouth grew petulant. "I don't care. I would rather have a live
husband than a dead genius. I can take care of him this way, make him
comfortable...."

Carson opened his mouth and closed his fist, then relaxed. Mitchell led
him back into the hall.

"I'm no psychiatrist," Mitchell said, "but I think she wants Macklin
stupid. Prefers it that way. She's always dominated his personal life,
and now she can dominate him completely."

"What is she? A monster?" the Army officer muttered.

"No," Mitchell said. "She's an intelligent woman unconsciously jealous
of her husband's genius."

"Maybe," Carson said. "I don't know. I don't know what the hell to tell
the Pentagon. I think I'll go out and get drunk."

"I'll go with you," Ferris said.

Mitchell glanced sharply at the little biologist.

Carson squinted. "Any particular reason, doctor?"

"To celebrate," Ferris said.

The colonel shrugged. "That's as good a reason as any."

On the street, Mitchell watched the two men go off together in
bewilderment.


                                  IV

Macklin was playing jacks.

He didn't have a head on his shoulders and he was squatting on a great
curving surface that was Spacetime, and his jacks were Earth and Pluto
and the rest of the planets. And for a ball he was using a head. Not
his head. Mitchell's. Both heads were initialed "M" so it was all the
same.

Mitchell forced himself to awaken, with some initial difficulty.

He lay there, blinking the sleep out of his eyes, listening to his
heart race, and then convulsively snatched the telephone receiver from
the nightstand. He stabbed out a number with a vicious index finger.

After a time there came a dull click and a sleepy answer.

"Hello?" Elliot Macklin said.

Mitchell smiled to himself. He was in luck; Macklin had answered the
phone instead of his wife.

"Can you speak freely, doctor?" Mitchell asked.

"Of course," the mathematician said. "I can talk fine."

"I mean, are you alone?"

"Oh, you want to know if my wife is around. No, she's asleep. That Army
doctor, Colonel Sidney, he gave her a sedative. I wouldn't let him give
me anything, though."

"Good boy," the biologist said. "Listen, doctor--Elliot--El, old son.
I'm not against you like all the others. I don't want to make you go
back to all that worrying and thinking and headaches. You believe me,
don't you?"

There was a slight hesitation.

"Sure," Macklin said, "if you say so. Why shouldn't I believe you?"

"But there was a hesitation there, El. You worried for just a second if
I could have some reason for not telling you the truth."

"I suppose so," Macklin said humbly.

"You've found yourself worrying--thinking--about a lot of other
problems since we left you, haven't you? Maybe not the same kind of
scientific problem. But more personal ones, ones you didn't used to
have time to think about."

"If you say so."

"Now, you know it's so. But how would you like to get rid of those
worries just as you got rid of the others?" Mitchell asked.

"I guess I'd like that," the mathematician replied.

"Then come on over to my laboratory. You remember where it's at, don't
you?"

"No, I--yes, I guess I do. But how do I know you won't try to put me
back where I was instead of helping me more?"

"I couldn't do that against your wishes. That would be illegal!"

"If you say so. But I don't guess I can come anyway. The Army is
watching me pretty close."

"That's alright," Mitchell said quickly. "You can bring along Colonel
Carson."

"But he won't like you fixing me up more."

"But he can't stop me! Not if you want me to do it. Now listen to me--I
want you to come right on over here, El."

"If you say so," Macklin said uncertainly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mitchell opened the door on the first knock.

Macklin stood in the doorway, looking uncertain and ill at ease. Carson
stood behind his left shoulder, looking actively belligerent.

"Come in," Mitchell said. "I have the injection ready for you, Doctor."

"Now you aren't going to 'cure' me?" Macklin said in concern. "This is
just going to help ease my mind?"

"Of course," the biologist said soothingly.

Colonel Carson lunged forward, mouth opening ominously.

Mitchell winked at him broadly.

Carson stopped in confusion and studied Mitchell's face. He essayed a
second wink. Carson relaxed.

Mitchell picked up the hypo of colorless carrier fluid from the
interestingly stained work table. "One thing first, Dr. Macklin. I'll
have to have your signed release for this treatment. It specifies that
your intelligence will probably be affected in this effort to keep your
head from troubling you. Carson can witness it."

"Sure," Macklin said. "I guess that's okay. If you say so."

The colonel grinned, his face hot and shiny. "I'm sure it will be fine,
Doctor."

Macklin looked at the officer with almost a trace of suspicion, then
accepted the sheet of typescript and the ballpoint pen from Mitchell.
Laboriously he affixed his signature.

Mitchell had the mathematician take a seat and pressed the needle
directly into the neck area.

"Ouch!" Macklin said.

Mitchell stood back and exhaled.

"It should take effect shortly," the biologist said.

"Good," Carson said....

The cylinders of the electric clock said 4:35:00 A.M.

Macklin was playing with his hands and their shadows in front of his
face.

"How long will this stage last, Dr. Mitchell?" Colonel Carson said in
concern.

"Indefinitely. This is the last stage. The circulatory system of his
brain has been relaxed to the point where he has about the I.Q. of a
turnip."

Carson steeled himself. "_So_, doctor! You're nothing but a dirty Lux!"

"No, Colonel. I've never even seen Luxemburg. My reason for doing this
to Dr. Macklin were entirely patriotic ... or, at least, sympathetic."

"Tell that to the hangman! I'll see you tried for treason."

"Look at him, Colonel. He is certainly no longer legally responsible.
He has the strength of a grown man and the intellect of an amoeba.
It would be impossible to keep him alive either under sedation or in
a padded cell. Even if Mrs. Macklin still refuses her consent--and I
don't think she will when she sees him in this bad a state--you can go
over her head and get permission for Ferris and myself to administer
our antitoxin to destroy the pituitrin-absorbing virus colony in his
cerebrum."

Carson looked dazed. "I--I'll call her."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mitchell greeted the orangish sunrise with a feeling of defeat. He
turned from the window to face the instruments of his laboratory.
Mrs. Macklin had come. Numbly she signed the release allowing the
restorative treatment. By the time she, Carson and the mathematician
left, Macklin had been able to say "mama" and--embarrassingly--"papa"
to him. Mitchell was confident he would regain his full senses and that
the brain cells had only become passive, and had not decayed.

But still it was only the wiping out of one horrendous mistake. Months
and months of work wasted.

The door banged open and a small man entered with a long, slender brown
paper bag and proceeding on an aeronautical search pattern.

"Dr. Ferris!" Mitchell said. "You mustn't take it so hard. I tried to
get in touch with you. But at least I have been able to administer the
antitoxin to Dr. Macklin."

"Who gives a damn about that egghead?" Ferris said, placing the
paperbag upright on the work table. "Don't you understand, man? We're
rich! Where are the glasses?"

"Rich?" Mitchell said. "Doctor, would you like me to help you over to
your own quarters?"

"Relax, Mitchell. I'm not _that_ drunk. I know what I'm talking about.
I tell you the F-M Virus is going to make us rich! Powerful! Men like
Elliot Macklin will be insignificant beside us."

He knew that Ferris was in sober earnest. "What do you mean, Doctor?"

Ferris turned, his thin face lit up with a flush of pleasure.
"Mitchell, we have something to make people permanently stupid! People
can stop thinking temporarily by using alcohol or narcotics or watching
television. But we--only you and I--have something to let them stop
thinking permanently. And we'll make them pay for it--for the shot and
the rent on the condition. Who _wants_ to think? A handful of people.
Who _has_ to think to do routine paperwork or push a button or pull
a lever? A bunch of happy, content morons can do all of that. We'll
return man to his natural, pre-evolutionary state of stupidity. As for
those of us who _don't_ take the treatment, we have it made! Made!"

Mitchell stared at him.

"Don't you get it, Mitchell?" Ferris roared. "_We have the ultimate
tranquilizer!_"

Mitchell thought of the world after the F-M Virus had been given it. He
thought: In his condition, if I shoved Ferris so that his head cracked
into the corner of the table, no one could prove anything. I could
destroy our records....

No, it wasn't any good. Some other researcher somewhere else was bound
to isolate the F-M Virus. None of it was any good.

He groped blindly towards the door. He had to get out, get to a
drugstore, buy some aspirins.

His head was killing him.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Big Headache, by Jim Harmon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIG HEADACHE ***

***** This file should be named 61228.txt or 61228.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/2/2/61228/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
