The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Winning of the Moon, by Kris Neville

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Winning of the Moon

Author: Kris Neville

Release Date: January 25, 2020 [EBook #61242]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WINNING OF THE MOON ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        THE WINNING OF THE MOON

                            BY KRIS NEVILLE

                    The enemy was friendly enough.
                     Trouble was--their friendship
                    was as dangerous as their hate!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1962.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


General Finogenov notified Major Winship that the underground blast was
scheduled for the following morning.

Major Winship, after receiving the message, discussed precautions with
the three other Americans.

Next morning, before the sunlight exploded, the four of them donned
their space suits and went and sat outside the dome, waiting. The sun
rose with its bright, silent clap of radiance. Black pools of shadows
lay in harsh contrast, their edges drawn with geometric precision.

Major Winship attempted unsuccessfully to communicate with Base
Gagarin. "Will you please request the general to keep us informed on
the progress of the countdown?"

"Is Pinov," came the reply. "Help?"

"_Nyet_," said Major Winship, exhausting his Russian. "Count down.
Progress. When--boom?"

"Is Pinov," came the reply.

"Boom! Boom!" said Major Winship in exasperation.

"Boom!" said Pinov happily.

"When?"

"Boom--boom!" said Pinov.

"Oh, nuts." Major Winship cut out the circuit. "They've got Pinov on
emergency watch this morning," he explained to the other Americans.
"The one that doesn't speak English."

"He's done it deliberately," said Capt. Wilkins, the eldest of the four
Americans. "How are we going to know when it's over?"

No one bothered to respond. They sat for a while in silence while the
shadows evaporated. One by one they clicked on their cooling systems.

Ultimately, Lt. Chandler said, "This is a little ridiculous. I'm going
to switch over to their channel. Rap if you want me." He sat transfixed
for several minutes. "Ah, it's all Russian. Jabbering away. I can't
tell a thing that's going on."

In the airless void of the moon, the blast itself would be silent. A
moth's wing of dust would, perhaps, rise and settle beyond the horizon:
no more.

"Static?"

"Nope."

"We'll get static on these things."

A small infinity seemed to pass very slowly.

Major Winship shifted restlessly. "My reefer's gone on the fritz."
Perspiration was trickling down his face.

"Let's all go in," said the fourth American, Capt. Lawler. "It's
probably over by now."

"I'll try again," Major Winship said and switched to the emergency
channel. "Base Gagarin? Base Gagarin?"

"Is Pinov. Help?"

"_Nyet._"

"Pinov's still there," Major Winship said.

"Tell him, 'Help'," said Capt. Wilkins, "so he'll get somebody we can
talk to."

"I'll see them all in hell, first," Major Winship said.

Five minutes later, the perspiration was rivers across his face. "This
is it," he said. "I'm going in."

"Let's all--"

"No. I've got to cool off."

"Hell, Charlie, I feel stupid sitting out here," Capt. Lawler said.
"The shot probably went off an hour ago."

"The static level hasn't gone up much, if at all."

"Maybe," Lt. Chandler said, "it's buried too deep."

"Maybe so," Major Winship said. "But we can't have the dome fall down
around all our ears." He stood. "Whew! You guys stay put."

       *       *       *       *       *

He crossed with the floating moon-motion to the airlock and entered,
closing the door behind him. The darkness slowly filled with air, and
the temperature inside the suit declined steadily. At the proper moment
of pressure, the inner lock slid open and Major Winship stepped into
the illuminated central area. His foot was lifted for the second step
when the floor beneath him rose and fell gently, pitching him forward,
off balance. He stumbled against the table and ended up seated beside
the radio equipment. The ground moved again.

"Charlie! Charlie!"

"I'm okay," Major Winship answered. "Okay! Okay!"

"It's--"

There was additional surface movement. The movement ceased.

"Hey, Les, how's it look?" Capt. Wilkins asked.

"Okay from this side. Charlie, you still okay?"

"Okay," Major Winship said. "We told them this might happen," he added
bitterly.

There was a wait during which everyone seemed to be holding their
breath.

"I guess it's over," said Major Winship, getting to his feet. "Wait a
bit more, there may be an after-shock." He switched once again to the
emergency channel.

"Is Pinov," came the supremely relaxed voice. "Help?"

Major Winship whinnied in disgust. "_Nyet!_" he snarled. To the other
Americans: "Our comrades seem unconcerned."

"Tough."

They began to get the static for the first time. It crackled and
snapped in their speakers. They made sounds of disapproval at each
other. For a minute or two, static blanked out the communications
completely. It then abated to something in excess of normal.

"Well," Lt. Chandler commented, "even though we didn't build this thing
to withstand a moonquake, it seems to have stood up all right."

"I guess I was just--" Major Winship began. "Oh, hell! We're losing
pressure. Where's the markers?"

"By the lug cabinet."

"Got 'em," Major Winship said a moment later.

He peeled back a marker and let it fall. Air currents whisked it away
and plastered it against a riveted seam of the dome. It pulsed as
though it were breathing and then it ruptured.

Major Winship moved quickly to cut out the emergency air supply which
had cut in automatically with the pressure drop. "You guys wait. It's
on your right side, midway up. I'll try to sheet it."

He moved for the plastic sheeting.

"We've lost about three feet of calk out here," Capt. Lawler said. "I
can see more ripping loose. You're losing pressure fast at this rate."

Major Winship pressed the sheeting over the leak. "How's that?"

"Not yet."

"I don't think I've got enough pressure left to hold it, now. It's
sprung a little, and I can't get it to conform over the rivet heads."

There was a splatter of static.

"Damn!" Major Winship said, "they should have made these things more
flexible."

"Still coming out."

"Best I can do." Major Winship stepped back. The sheet began slowly
to slide downward, then it fell away completely and lay limply on the
floor.

"Come on in," he said dryly.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the four of them inside, it was somewhat cramped. Most of the
five hundred square feet was filled with equipment. Electrical cables
trailed loosely along the walls and were festooned from the ceiling,
radiating from the connections to the outside solar cells. The living
space was more restricted than in a submarine, with the bunks jutting
out from the walls about six feet from the floor.

Lt. Chandler mounted one of the bunks to give them more room. "Well,"
he said wryly, "it doesn't smell as bad now."

"Oops," said Major Winship. "Just a second. They're coming in." He
switched over to the emergency channel. It was General Finogenov.

"Major Winship! Hello! Hello, hello, hello. You A Okay?"

"This is Major Winship."

"Oh! Excellent, very good. Any damage, Major?"

"Little leak. You?"

"Came through without damage." General Finogenov paused a moment. When
no comment was forthcoming, he continued: "Perhaps we built a bit more
strongly, Major."

"You did this deliberately," Major Winship said testily.

"No, no. Oh, no, no, no, no. Major Winship, please believe me. I very
much regret this. Very much so. I am very distressed. Depressed. After
repeatedly assuring you there was no danger of a quake--and then to
have something like this happen. Oh, this is very embarrassing to me.
Is there anything at all we can do?"

"Just leave us alone, thank you," Major Winship said and cut off the
communication.

"What'd they say?" Capt. Wilkins asked.

"Larry, General Finogenov said he was very embarrassed by this."

"That's nice," Lt. Chandler said.

"I'll be damned surprised," Major Winship said, "if they got any
seismic data out of that shot.... Well, to hell with them, let's get
this leak fixed. Skip, can you get the calking compound?"

"Larry, where's the inventory?"

"Les has got it."

Lt. Chandler got down from the bunk and Capt. Wilkins mounted.

"Larry," Major Winship said, "why don't you get Earth?"

"Okay."

Capt. Wilkins got down from the bunk and Capt. Lawler ascended.

"Got the inventory sheet, Les?"

"Right here."

Squeezed in front of the massive transmitter, Capt. Wilkins had
energized the circuits. There was a puzzled look on his face. He leaned
his helmet against the speaker and then shook his head sadly. "We can't
hear anything without any air."

Major Winship looked at the microphone. "Well, I'll just report and--"
He started to pick up the microphone and reconsidered. "Yes," he said.
"That's right, isn't it."

Capt. Wilkins flicked off the transmitter. "Some days you don't mine at
all," he said.

"Les, have you found it?"

"It's around here somewhere. Supposed to be back here."

"Well, _find_ it."

Lt. Chandler began moving boxes. "I saw it--"

"Skip, help look."

Capt. Lawler got down from the bunk and Major Winship mounted. "We
haven't got all day."

A few minutes later, Lt. Chandler issued the triumphant cry. "Here it
is! Dozen tubes. Squeeze tubes. It's the new stuff."

Major Winship got down and Capt. Wilkins got up.

"Marker showed it over here," Major Winship said, inching over to the
wall. He traced the leak with a metallic finger.

"How does this stuff work?" Capt. Lawler asked.

They huddled over the instruction sheet.

"Let's see. Squeeze the tube until the diaphragm at the nozzle
ruptures. Extrude paste into seam. Allow to harden one hour before
service."

Major Winship said dryly, "Never mind. I notice it hardens on contact
with air."

Capt. Wilkins lay back on the bunk and stared upward. He said, "Now
that makes a weird kind of sense, doesn't it?"

"How do they possibly think--?"

"Gentlemen! It doesn't make any difference," Lt. Chandler said. "Some
air must already have leaked into this one. It's hard as a rock. A
gorilla couldn't extrude it."

"How're the other ones?" asked Major Winship.

Lt. Chandler turned and made a quick examination. "Oh, they're all
hard, too."

"Who was supposed to check?" demanded Capt. Wilkins in exasperation.

"The only way you can check is to extrude it," Lt. Chandler said, "and
if it does extrude, you've ruined it."

"That's that," Major Winship said. "There's nothing for it but to yell
help."


                                  II

Capt. Lawler and Lt. Chandler took the land car to Base Gagarin. The
Soviet base was situated some ten miles toward sunset at the bottom of
a natural fold in the surface. The route was moderately direct to the
tip of the gently rolling ridge. At that point, the best pathway angled
left and made an S-shaped descent to the basin. It was a one-way trip
of approximately thirty exhausting minutes.

Major Winship, with his deficient reefer, remained behind. Capt.
Wilkins stayed for company.

"I want a cigarette in the worst way," Capt. Wilkins said.

"So do I, Larry. Shouldn't be more than a couple of hours. Unless
something else goes wrong."

"As long as they'll loan us the calking compound," Capt. Wilkins said.

"Yeah, yeah," Major Winship said.

"Let's eat."

"You got any concentrate? I'm empty."

"I'll load you," Capt. Wilkins volunteered wearily.

It was an awkward operation that took several minutes. Capt. Wilkins
cursed twice during the operation. "I'd hate to live in this thing for
any period."

"I think these suits are one thing we've got over the Russians," Major
Winship said. "I don't see how they can manipulate those bulky pieces
of junk around."

They ate.

"Really horrible stuff."

"Nutritious."

After the meal, Major Winship said reflectively, "Now I'd like a cup of
hot tea. I'm cooled off."

Capt. Wilkins raised eyebrows. "What brought this on?"

"I was just thinking.... They really got it made, Larry. They've got
better than three thousand square feet in the main dome and better than
twelve hundred square feet in each of the two little ones. And there's
only seven of them right now. That's living."

"They've been here six years longer, after all."

"Finogenov had a _clay_ samovar sent up. Lemon and nutmeg, too. Real,
by God, fresh lemons for the tea, the last time I was there. His own
office is about ten by ten. Think of that. One hundred square feet. And
a wooden desk. A _wooden_ desk. And a chair. A wooden chair. Everything
big and heavy. Everything. Weight, hell. Fifty pounds more or less--"

"They've got the power-plants for it."

"Do you think he did that deliberately?" Major Winship asked. "I think
he's trying to force us off. I think he hoped for the quake. Gagarin's
built to take it, I'll say that. Looks like it, anyhow. You don't
suppose they planned this all along? Even if they didn't, they sure got
the jump on us again, didn't they? I told you what he told me?"

"You told me," Capt. Wilkins said.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a moment, Major Winship said bitterly, "To hell with the Russian
engineer."

"If you've got all that power...."

"That's the thing. That's the thing that gripes me, know what I mean?
It's just insane to send up a heavy wooden desk. That's showing off.
Like a little kid."

"Maybe they don't make aluminum desks."

"They've--got--aluminum. Half of everything on the whole planet is
aluminum. You know they're just showing off."

"Let me wire you up," Capt. Wilkins said. "We ought to report."

"That's going to take awhile."

"It's something to do while we wait."

"I guess we ought to." Major Winship came down from the bunk and
sat with his back toward the transmitter. Capt. Wilkins slewed the
equipment around until the emergency jacks were accessible. He
unearthed the appropriate cable and began unscrewing the exterior
plate to the small transmitter-receiver set on Major Winship's back.
Eventually, trailing wires, Major Winship was coupled into the network.
"Okay?"

"Okay," Major Winship gestured.

They roused Earth.

"This is Major Charles Winship, Commanding Officer, Freedom 19, the
American moonbase."

At this point, Major Winship observed for the first time that he was
now on emergency air. He started to ask Capt. Wilkins to change his
air bottle, but then he realized his communications were cut off. He
reached over and rapped Capt. Wilkins' helmet.

"This is the Cape. Come in, Major Winship."

"Just a moment."

"Is everything all right?"

Major Winship was squirming nervously, obviously perturbed.

"A-Okay," he said. "Just a moment."

"What's wrong?" came the worried question. In the background, he heard
someone say, "I think there's something wrong."

Capt. Wilkins peered intently. Major Winship contorted his face in a
savage grimace.

Capt. Wilkins raised his eyebrows in alarm. They were face to face
through their helmets, close together. Each face appeared monstrously
large to the other.

Major Winship made a strangling motion and reached for his throat. One
arm tangled a cable and jerked the speaker jack loose. Major Winship
could no longer hear the alarmed expressions from the Cape. The effort
was not entirely subvocal, since he emitted a little gasping cry in
involuntary realism.

This, in the course of some 90 seconds, was transmitted to Earth.

Capt. Wilkins's lips were desperately forming the word "Leak?"

Air, Major Winship said silently.

Leak?

Bottle! Bottle! Bottle! It was a frog-like, unvocal expletive.

       *       *       *       *       *

Comprehension dawned. Capt. Wilkins nodded and started to turn away.
Major Winship caught his arm and nodded his head toward the loose jack.

Oh.

Capt. Wilkins nodded and smiled. He reached across and plugged the
speaker in again.

"... Freedom 19! Hello, Freedom 19! Come in!"

"We're here," Major Winship said.

"All right? Are you all right?"

"We're all right. A-Okay." Major Winship, mindful of the extent of his
potential audience, took a deep breath. "Earlier this morning, the
Soviet Union fired an underground atomic device for the _ostensible_
purpose of investigating the composition of the lunar mass by means of
seismic analysis of the resultant shock waves. This was done in spite
of American warnings that such a disturbance might release accumulated
stresses in the long undisturbed satellite, and was done in the face of
vigorous American protests."

Capt. Wilkins tapped his helmet and gestured for him to swivel around.
The turn was uncomfortably tight and complicated by the restraining
cables. Capt. Wilkins began replacement of the air bottle.

"These protests have proved well founded," Major Winship continued.
"Immediately following the detonation, Freedom 19 was called on to
withstand a moderately severe shifting of the Lunar surface. No
personnel were injured and there was no equipment damage."

Capt. Wilkins tapped his shoulder to indicate the new air bottle was
being inserted. Another tap indicated it was seated. Major Winship
flicked the appropriate chest button and nodded in appreciation.

"However," he continued, "we did experience a minor leak in the dome,
which is presently being repaired."

"The Soviet Union," came the reply, "has reported the disturbance and
has tendered their official apology. You want it?"

"It can wait until later. Send it by mail for all I care. Vacuum has
destroyed our organic air reconditioner. We have approximately three
weeks of emergency air. However, Base Gagarin reports no damage, so
that, in the event we exhaust our air, we will be able to obtain the
necessary replacement."

The wait of a little better than three seconds for the response gave
the conversation a tone of deliberation.

A new voice came on. "We tried to contact you earlier, Major. We will
be able to deliver replacements in about ten days."

"I will forward a coded report on the occurrence," Major Winship said.

"Let us hear from you again in ... about three hours. Is the leak
repaired?"

"The leak has not yet been repaired. Over and out."

He nodded to Capt. Wilkins and leaned back.

Methodically, Capt. Wilkins set about disconnecting the major from the
transmitter.

"Wow!" said Major Winship when he was once more in communication. "For
a moment there, I thought...."

"What?" Capt. Wilkins asked with interest.

"I could see myself asking them to ask the Russians to ask Finogenov
to get on the emergency channel to ask you to charge the air bottle.
I never felt so ... idiotic is not quite strong enough ... there for a
minute in my whole life. I didn't know how much emergency air was left,
and I thought, my God, I'll never live this down. All the hams in the
world listening, while I try to explain the situation. I could see the
nickname being entered in my files: aka. The Airless Idiot. I tell you,
that was rough."


                                  III

Capt. Lawler and Lt. Chandler returned with the calking compound. It
occupied the rear section of the land car. Lt. Chandler sat atop it. It
was a fifty-five gallon drum.

The airlock to Freedom 19 was open. "What is _that_?" asked Major
Winship, squinting out into the glaring sunlight.

"That," said Capt. Lawler, "is the calking compound."

"You're kidding," said Capt. Wilkins.

"I am not kidding."

Capt. Lawler and Lt. Chandler came inside. Capt. Wilkins mounted a bunk.

"Why didn't you just borrow a cupful?" Major Winship said sarcastically.

"It's this way," Lt. Chandler said. "They didn't have anything but
55-gallon drums of it."

"Oh, my," said Capt. Wilkins. "I suppose it's a steel drum. Those
things must weigh...."

"Actually, I think you guys have got the general wrong," Capt. Lawler
said. "He was out, himself, to greet us. I think he was really quite
upset by the quake. Probably because his people had misfigured so bad."

"He's too damned suspicious," Major Winship said. "You know and I know
why they set that blast off. I tried to tell him. Hell. He looks at me
like an emasculated owl and wants to know our ulterior motive in trying
to prevent a purely scientific experiment, the results of which will be
published in the technical press for the good of everybody. I'll bet!"

"About this drum," Capt. Wilkins said.

"Well, like I said, it's this way," Lt. Chandler resumed. "I told him
we needed about a pint. Maybe a quart. But this stuff you have to mix
up. He only had these drums. There's two parts to it, and you have to
combine them in just the right proportion. He told me to take a little
scale--"

"A little scale?" asked Capt. Wilkins, rolling his eyes at the dome.

"That's what I told him. We don't have any little scale."

"Yeah," said Captain Lawler, "and he looked at us with that mute,
surprised look, like everybody, everywhere has dozens of little
scales."

"Well, anyway," Lt. Chandler continued, "he told us just to mix up the
whole fifty-five gallon drum. There's a little bucket of stuff that
goes in, and it's measured just right. We can throw away what we don't
need."

"Somehow, that sounds like him," Major Winship said.

"He had five or six of them."

"Jesus!" said Capt. Wilkins. "That must be _three thousand pounds_ of
calking compound. Those people are insane."

"The question is," Capt. Lawler said, "'How are we going to mix it?'
It's supposed to be mixed thoroughly."

They thought over the problem for a while.

"That will be a man-sized job," Major Winship said.

"Let's see, Charlie. Maybe not too bad," said Capt. Wilkins. "If I took
the compressor motor, we could make up a shaft and ... let's see ... if
we could...."

       *       *       *       *       *

It took the better part of an hour to rig up the electric mixer.

Capt. Wilkins was profusely congratulated.

"Now," Major Winship said, "we can either bring the drum inside or take
the mixer out there."

"We're going to have to bring the drum in," Capt. Wilkins said.

"Well," said Capt. Lawler, "that will make it nice and cozy."

It took the four of them to roll the drum inside, rocking it back and
forth through the airlock. At that time, it was apparent the table was
interposing itself.

Lt. Chandler tried to dismantle the table. "Damn these suits," he said.

"You've got it stuck between the bunk post."

"I _know_ that."

"I don't think this is the way to do it," Major Winship said. "Let's
back the drum out."

Reluctantly, they backed the drum out and deposited it. With the aid of
Capt. Lawler, Lt. Chandler got the table unstuck. They passed it over
to Major Winship, who handed it out to Capt. Wilkins. Captain Wilkins
carried it around the drum of calking compound and set it down. It
rested uneasily on the uneven surface.

"Now, let's go," said Major Winship.

Eventually, they accomplished the moving. They wedged the drum between
the main air-supply tank and the transmitter. They were all perspiring.
"It's not the weight, it's the mass," said Capt. Wilkins brightly.

"The hell it isn't the weight," said Lt. Chandler. "That's heavy."

"With my reefer out," said Major Winship, "I'm the one it's rough on."
He shook perspiration out of his eyes. "They should figure a way to get
a mop in here, or a towel, or a sponge, or something. I'll bet you've
forgotten how much sweat stings in the eyes."

"It's the salt."

"Speaking of salt. I wish I had some salt tablets," Major Winship said.
"I've never sweat so much since basic."

"Want to bet Finogenov hasn't got a bushel of them?"

"No!" Major Winship snapped.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the drum of calking compound inside, both Capt. Lawler and Lt.
Chandler retreated to the bunks. Capt. Wilkins maneuvered the mixing
attachment. "I feel crowded," he said.

"Cozy's the word."

"Watch it! Watch it! You almost hit me in the face plate with that!"

"Sorry."

At length the mixer was in operation in the drum.

"Works perfectly," said Capt. Wilkins proudly.

"Now what, Skip? The instructions aren't in English."

"You're supposed to dump the bucket of stuff in. Then clean the area
thoroughly around the leak."

"With what?" asked Major Winship.

"Sandpaper, I guess."

"With sandpaper?" Major Winship said, emptying the bucket of fluid into
the drum. "We don't have any sandpaper."

"It's been a long day," Capt. Wilkins said.

"Mix it thoroughly," Lt. Chandler mused. "I guess that means let it mix
for about ten minutes or so. Then you apply it. It sets for service in
just a little bit, Finogenov said. An hour or so, maybe."

"I hope this doesn't set on exposure to air."

"No," Capt. Lawler said. "It sets by some kind of chemical action.
General Finogenov wasn't sure of the English name for it. Some kind of
plastic."

"Let's come back to how we're going to clean around the leak," Major
Winship said.

"Say, I--" interrupted Capt. Wilkins. There was a trace of concern
in his voice. "This is a hell of a time for this to occur to
me. I just wasn't thinking, before. _You don't suppose it's a
room-temperature-curing epoxy resin, do you?_"

"Larry," said Major Winship, "I wouldn't know a room-temperature-curing
epoxy resin from--"

"Hey!" exclaimed Capt. Wilkins. "The mixer's stopped." He bent forward
and touched the drum. He jerked back. "Ye Gods! that's hot! And it's
harder than a rock! It _is_ an epoxy! Let's get out of here."

"Huh?"

"Out! Out!"

Major Winship, Lt. Chandler, and Capt. Lawler, recognizing the sense of
urgency, simultaneously glanced at the drum. It was glowing cherry red.

"Let's go!" Capt. Wilkins said.

He and the Major reached the airlock at the same time and became
temporarily engaged with each other. Movement was somewhat ungainly
in the space suits under the best of conditions, and now, with the
necessity for speed, was doubly so. The other two crashed into them
from behind, and they spewed forth from the dome in a tangle of arms
and legs.

At the table, they separated, two going to the left, two to the right.
The table remained untouched.

When they halted, Capt. Wilkins said, "Get to one side, it may go off
like shrapnel." They obeyed.

"What--what--what?" Capt. Lawler stuttered.

They were still separated, two on one side of the airlock, two on the
other.

"I'm going to try to look," Capt. Wilkins said. "Let me go." He
lumbered directly away from the dome for a distance of about fifteen
feet, then turned and positioned himself, some five feet behind the
table, on a line of sight with the airlock.

"I can see it," he said. "It's getting redder. It's ... it's ...
melting, yes. Melting down at the bottom a little. Now it's falling
over to one side and laying on the air tank. The air tank is getting
red, too. I'm afraid ... it's weakening it.... Redder. Oh, oh."

"What?" said Capt. Lawler.

"Watch out! There. _There!_" Capt. Wilkins leaped from his position.
He was still floating toward the ground when there was an incredibly
bright flare from inside the dome, and a great, silent tongue of flame
lashed through the airlock and rolled across the lunar surface. The
table was sent tumbling. The flame was gone almost instantly.

"There went the air," Capt. Lawler commented.

"We got T-Trouble," said Lt. Chandler.


                                  IV

During the fifteen-minute wait before they dared venture back, Capt.
Wilkins, interrupted once by what appeared to be a moderately mild
after-shock from the previous moonquake, explained the phenomena they
had just observed.

"A room-temperature-curing epoxy liberates heat during its curing
reaction. And the hotter it is when you mix it, the faster it reacts.
The drum had been absorbing heat out here for several hours much faster
than it could radiate it away. It may have been forty or fifty degrees
C when we stirred in the curing agent. At that temperature, a pound
mass will normally kick over in five or ten minutes. But here, the only
way it can lose the reaction heat is by the slow process of radiation.
And that means as the heat builds up, the epoxy goes faster and faster,
building up even more heat. And furthermore, we're not talking about a
pound, which can maybe get up to 250 C. in air. We're talking about 500
pounds, liberating five hundred times as much heat as one pound, and
getting God knows how hot--"

"I sure wish you'd have told me this a little bit earlier," Major
Winship said. "I certainly wish you'd told me."

Capt. Wilkins said, "Honest, it never occurred to me Finogenov would be
dumb enough to tell us to mix a whole drum of epoxy."

Major Winship began to curse mechanically.

"I don't think he did it deliberately, Charlie. I really don't,"
Captain Lawler said. "I don't think he knew any better. Maybe he was
showing off by giving us a whole drum. Hell, I know he was showing off.
But something like that could kill somebody, and I don't think he'd go
that far."

"Think it's safe, yet?" Major Winship asked. He was perspiring freely
again. "I need some thermal protection. What'll we do? You know damned
well. We'll have to go _live_ with them. And that sticks in my craw,
gentlemen. That--sticks--in my--craw."'

"There's nothing for it," Capt. Wilkins said helpfully.

"Let me go in and survey the damage," Lt. Chandler said.

"That's my job," Major Winship said. "I've got to go in anyway." He
lumbered through the airlock and stepped into the total darkness
through the razor-edge curtain.

"I see it glowing, still," he said. "It's almost as bad in here as out
there, now. I guess it's okay. Come on. Let's bumble around finding
the air bottles for the suits and get over there before I'm a boiled
lobster. Not only is my reefer out, so's my light."

"Coming."

An air of urgency began to accumulate.

"What are we going to do with him? It's a half-hour run over there."

"Think you can make it, Charlie?"

"I'm damned well hot."

"Charlie, come out here. In the car. Skip, you get the bottles. You
drive."

Major Winship came out. "Lay down in back," Capt. Wilkins said. "Les,
you lay down beside him. I'll lay on top of him. I think we can shield
him pretty good that way."

"That's good thinking," Capt. Lawler said from inside.

The operation was not easily executed. Lt. Chandler got in first, and
then Major Winship squeezed beside him. "Careful, there," he said as
Capt. Wilkins came aboard.

Capt. Wilkins's foot rolled off one of Major Winship's thighs.

"Watch it!"

"I am."

"Oops!"

"Ufff! I felt that. Ugh. Thank God for the way these are built."

"How's that?" Capt. Wilkins asked.

"I guess.... It's okay, I guess."

"Cooler?"

"It's too soon to tell. Man, I'll bet we look silly."

Capt. Lawler came out with the bottles and studied his companions for a
moment.

"See if we can get up and over a little more, Les."

"This okay?"

"Better. How's it feel, Charlie?"

"Okay."

Cant. Lawler deposited the air bottles. "Everyone got enough air?"

"I guess we're all okay," Capt. Wilkins said.

"Don't we look silly?" Major Winship asked plaintively. "I can't
possibly describe my emotions at this minute."

"You look all right," Capt. Lawler said. "Still hot?"

Major Winship grunted. He said nothing.

"I'll get there as fast as I can."

       *       *       *       *       *

After about ten minutes jarring across the lunar surface, Major Winship
said, "I'm not appreciably cooler; but then I'm not appreciably hotter,
either."

"Shut up, Charlie. You're a thirty-year man," Lt. Chandler said.

"Old soldiers never die, they just become desiccated."

"I'd like a beer," Major Winship said. "A cold, frosty, foamy beer. Big
collar. Gimme a beer, a little shaker of salt--"

"Finogenov's probably got eight or ten cases."

"For once, I hope you're right. Try to bounce a little easier, Larry."

"Russians don't drink beer," Lt. Chandler said.

"You sure?"

"Vodka," Capt Lawler grunted.

"They drink champagne, you idiots," Capt. Wilkins said.

"Beggars can't be choosers," Major Winship said. "Champagne is okay by
me. If it's just cold."

"Finogenov will have a few hundred pounds of ice."

"Cut it out," Major Winship said.

"Boy, you wait till we get you back to Earth. When it comes time to
reup, I'm going to be there. I'm going to remind you of this one."

"You're a thirty-year man, too, Les," Major Winship said.

"Not me," Lt. Chandler said. "I've had it, dad. I'm going to sell my
life story to the movies and spend the rest of my life eating popcorn
and watching what an idiot I was. A man can get hurt up here."

"So you want to be a civilian?"

"You're damned right I do," Lt. Chandler said.

"We're about there," Capt. Lawler cut in. "You still okay, Charlie?"

"Fine."

"Here's the little ridge, then. Hold on, we're taking the angle up. You
riding okay, Charlie?"

"Fine, Skip."

After a moment, Capt. Lawler said, "I see the base now. The top. Hey!"
He slammed on the brakes. "Oh, _no_! Those ... those fools! Those
idiots."

"What's wrong?" Major Winship demanded. "Skip--_what's wrong?_"

"The second little dome is down. It wasn't that way a couple of hours
ago. And they've block-and-tackled a drum of calking compound up on the
main dome."

"_We've got to stop them!_" Major Winship cried. "Skip! Skip!"

"Charlie, there's nothing we can do. The drum's just starting to turn
red."

There was silence for a while.

"It's melting through, now. There it goes. Down through the dome. Out
of sight." After a moment, Capt. Lawler continued. "Funny how things
fall so slowly under this low gravity. It floated through their dome
just like a feather. You should have seen it."

Eventually, Lt. Chandler said, "Boys, this is my last hitch."

There was more silence.

Capt. Wilkins mused, "I guess they didn't have a little scale either."

Someone was breathing loudly. At length, Major Winship said
reflectively, "Why do you suppose they would try to calk it from the
outside?"

Again silence. Major Winship asked the question. "Okay. Let's have it.
How's the other little dome?"

"Other one? Oh, sorry," Capt. Lawler said. "It looks all right."

"It better _be_ all right," Lt. Chandler said.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the end, the eleven of them were crowded into the one remaining
operational structure of the four available on the moon at sunrise.

For perhaps the tenth time, General Finogenov offered his apologies.
He and Major Winship were huddled side by side in a corner. They were
drinking vodka.

"Plenty of everything," General Finogenov said. "Don't concern
yourself, Major. Air, food, water, we have more than enough for a
prolonged siege."

"Accidents will happen."

"Exactly," said General Finogenov, pouring more vodka for himself.
"Glad you understand." He put the empty bottle down. "We will have
another one next week. In the meantime--I very much regret the
inconvenience. Plenty of food, water, air, though. Pinov! Pinov! Vodka!"

Pinov answered in Russian.

General Finogenov frowned. "Dear, dear," he said. "I'm afraid this must
be our last one, Major. You see, while we have plenty of everything
else, we are, you see.... The truth of the matter is, we didn't foresee
visitors. Unfortunately, we have no more vodka."

"No more vodka," said General Finogenov. He stared morosely into the
inky distance. "Major Winship, I have a confession. Oh, that second one
was a beauty. You didn't feel it?"

"Our leak sprang on the first one. The second was quite mild, we
thought."

"We were right on the fault line," General Finogenov said. "As you
Americans say, it was a beauty. I have a confession. One must admit
one's mistakes."

"Yes?"

"We used much too large a bomb," he said.

"I'm with you," Lt. Chandler chimed in from somewhere out of the
darkness. "But when do you think you're going to get the lights fixed?"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Winning of the Moon, by Kris Neville

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WINNING OF THE MOON ***

***** This file should be named 61242.txt or 61242.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/2/4/61242/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
