Project Gutenberg's The Chemically Pure Warriors, by Allen Kim Lang

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Chemically Pure Warriors

Author: Allen Kim Lang

Release Date: February 4, 2020 [EBook #61316]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CHEMICALLY PURE WARRIORS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                     THE CHEMICALLY PURE WARRIORS

                           BY ALLEN KIM LANG

                  They conquered the planet and they
                    owned it outright. The trouble
                 was--they didn't dare set foot on it!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, July 1962.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


From the head of the platoon Lieutenant Lee Hartford signaled Sergeant
Felix, busy policing up stragglers at the rear, that he was taking
over. Hartford tongued the volume-setting of his bitcher to "Low" and
softly sing-songed to his three dozen troopers: "_Your girlfriend's
just an hour away; there's a time to soldier and a time to play._ Pick
it HUP, HUP, HUP! 'Toon, tain-HUT.' HUP, twop, threep, furp; HUP, HUP;
HUP, twop, threep, furp. Mondrian, pick up the cadence; you're marching
like a man with a paper pelvis. _Swing 'em six to the front and three
to the rear; When you sing to your Daddy, sing it loud and clear._"
Hartford turned up the volume. "_Three weeks in the woods, eating
squeeze-tube beans; We'd be better off in the Fleet Marines. Sound
off!_"

"ONE, TWO," boomed the voice of the Terrible Third, sounding from the
bitchers at the chests of thirty-six safety-suits. Dust slapped up
from marching-boots. A flock of scarlet blabrigars settled on the road
ahead, chattering and watching like small boys.

"_Sound hoff!_"

"THREE, FOUR!" The road led uphill toward Stinkerville; they were
some three miles from First Regiment Barracks. Three miles from now
these troopers could shed their safety-suits and helmets, shower off
three weeks of sweat, drink a beer and leer at the short-skirted,
taut-haltered girls of the Service Companies.

"_Who are we?_" Hartford chanted.

"COMPANY C," the troopers blatted back.

The blabrigars, fluttering up from the roadway, chanted too: "Who
are we? Company See. Who, we? See, see. Company See Are Wee See
See." These wild birds didn't memorize human speech as well as their
captive cousins; they garbled their mockeries immediately. The flock
settled into the sunflowers beside the road; and were joined by a
pair of wild camelopards, chewing sunflower-leaf cud as they peered
at the marching Axenites. Hartford looked about, but there were no
Stinkers--Kansans--in sight. These natives didn't care to watch the
occupying regiment stir up their homeland's dust. "_What platoon?_"
Hartford called, his voice magnified by the bitcher till the whole
column could hear him.

"THIRD PLATOON," the men bellowed back, singing against the percussion
of their boots. "'Toon, click, click, click; 'toon, click, third
platoon, click," mocked the blabrigars in ragged chorus, reflecting
both the words and the marching feet.

"_Best platoon?_"

"THIRD PLATOON!" the men shouted. They'd turned up their bitchers to
a volume the blabrigars couldn't match. Disgusted, the birds flapped
their scarlet wings and flew off across the sunflower fields. "'Toon,"
one rear-flier chanted, "'toon, 'toon, 'toon."

"_Worst platoon?_" Hartford asked.

"FIRST PLATOON!" That was for the benefit of Lieutenant Piacentelli,
commanding the tail-end of the Regiment, the platoon marching on either
side of the lumbering Decontamination Vehicle, their safety-suit
filters clogging with the dust.

"_Sound off!_" Hartford shouted.

"ONE, TWO!"

       *       *       *       *       *

That'll rattle the windows in Stinkerville, Hartford thought. He
pitched his descant louder and higher. "_Sound off!_"

"THREE, FOUR!"

"_Run 'er on down!_"

"ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR; ONE, TWO, THREEP--FURP!" The men of The
Terrible Third were grinning through the face-plates of their helmets,
rejoicing in their reputation as the loudest bunch in the Regiment,
happy to help Hartford in waging his mock-feud with Lieutenant
Piacentelli. They'd been classmates at the Axenite Academy; they'd been
room-mates in the Barracks until Pia's recent marriage to a Service
Company officer.

Hartford lowered his bitcher to a confidential tone. "Square up, men;
march tall; look rough and dirty. Show the Stinker girls what they're
missing. HUP, HUP, HUP. Sling those rifles square. Mondrian, you march
like you're wearing skis: HUP, twop, threep, furp!" Up and down the
column came the commands of sergeants and platoon-commanders, getting
their troopers in parade-trim for the march through Kansannamura:
"Stinkerville." Somewhere up front a company was singing the anthem of
the Axenite troopers, "Oh, Pioneers!" The chorus of twelve dozen men,
their bitchers full-up, filled the Kansan air and echoed from the walls
ahead.

Stinkerville, all white-washed, with flakes of mica glittering in
the sunlight, sprawled across the road that led to the Barracks. The
village wall, designed to keep wild camelopards from roaming the
streets and to keep the tame beasts out of the sunflower-fields, was
some eight feet tall. Some Indigenous Hominid had heard the Regiment's
clatter and song, for the gates of Kansannamura were open, the brick
streets were clear of Stinker commerce. The village seemed deserted.
A few blabrigars perched on the tiled eaves of the rammed-earth
houses, making echoic comments on the sounds of the troopers, singing
fleeting snatches of "Oh, Pioneers!" A camelopard stretched its
ridiculous, three-horned head at the end of its fathom of neck to peer,
big-brown-eyed, at the caravan of fishbowl-headed men. Up at the head
of the column the Regiment's flags were unfurled and the Regimental
Band was skirling the Anthem; men were counting cadence as their boots
clicked over the scrubbed bricks of Stinkerville's streets.

       *       *       *       *       *

But no Kansan, Stinker, Indigenous Hominid, Gook or Native watched. No
cowboy youngsters stared at the gunned-and-holstered men from another
planet. No elders looked down their noses at the brash invaders. No
mothers wiped their hands on their aprons as they thought of their
sons, and the fleshly price they'd pay for freedom. No teenage
girls, those patrons of parades, watched with lips half-open with
apprehension and audacious thoughts about the hundreds of gift-wrapped
young man marching past. This planet could have as well been named
Coventry as Kansas, Hartford thought. Out the far gate of Kansannamura
marched Third Platoon, Company "C," then First Platoon, flanking the
Decontamination Vehicle. A villager came from the house nearest the
gate and closed it. He did not look after the two columns of men
winding up through the fields of sunflowers to the high plateau where
they lived.

The sight of the Barracks gave the men's steps a new swing and spring.
After three weeks of sleeping in safety-suits; of breathing, sweating,
drinking, eating and excreting through germ-barrier valves and tubing,
the prospect of stripping off the plastic battle-dress was seductive.
Inside that eight stories of windowless, doorless stone were gardens
where the troopers could walk barefoot on the grass, pools whose water
could splash their naked skin. In the Barracks were the three hundred
Service Company women who made the big stone box home to their three
thousand men.

The men of First Regiment massed on the parade-ground. While they stood
At Ease, their plastic-sleeved rifles and packs growing heavier by the
minute, their safety-suits staler, four of the five Service Companies
marched out from the Syphon to join them. The women were suited in
yellow plastic, giving rise to the gags about fool's gold. The four
golden companies took up position at the center of the Regiment.

Colonel Benjamin Nef, Commander-in-Chief, Kansas, CINCK, climbed to
the reviewing-stand in his command safety-suit of scarlet. Facing
into the sun, the Colonel had the polarizing shield dropped over his
eyes, and seemed to be wearing a black bandage. His lower jaw beetled
to give him a truculent look generally ratified by his actions. His
hair glinted through the helmet like spun copper. Nef turned to his
second-in-command, a lieutenant-colonel in ordinary officer's blues,
and murmured instructions. The light colonel saluted, turned the
controls of his bitcher to Full Loud, and addressed the troopers
assembled: "Regiment...."

Down the chain-of-command came the ripple of warning:

"Battaaalion...."

"Commmpaneee...."

"'Toooon...."

"Tain-HUT!" Fifteen hundred pairs of boots smacked together. The
Adjutant held up his clipboard and read precisely: "Attention to orders:

"One. Officer of the Guard, Lieutenant Lee Hartford.

"Two. CINCK commends troopers involved in the just-completed three-week
Field Exercise on not having had a single incident of compromise
of sterility. Household, Maintenance and Security troopers are
complimented on having maintained the integrity of the Barracks with a
much-reduced force.

"Three. All male and female troopers are again cautioned that
fraternization with Indigenous Hominids is an offense punishable by
General Court-Martial, and that any unauthorized intercourse with the
natives is prohibited."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was of course a murmur of automatic laughter at this last bit
of official double-entendre. The idea of bedding-down a Stinker wench
was a favorite bit of pornographic fantasy. An air-tight safety-suit,
though fit with valves as functional as the drop-seat in long-johns,
was no garment for romance. To undress, to appear in outdoor Kansas
outside that head-to-foot sausage-casing, appealed to none of the
troopers. Healthy young men and women don't entertain the thought of
painful suicide.

The reporting officer about-faced, saluted Colonel Nef, about-faced
again. "Present...."

"Preezent...."

"Preeezent...."

"Preeeezent...."

"HAHMS!" Fifteen hundred Dardick-rifles, sheathed in plastic, slapped
perpendicular. The blue-clad officers, armed with pistols, touched
their index fingers to their helmet-temples. The bandsmen's drums
growled, the electronic horns sobbed against their mutes, and the
flutes in lonely purity played the theme of "Oh, Pioneers!" For all his
har-de-har-hardness, Hartford felt a sting in his eyes at this moment,
as he did whenever the splendidly stage-managed ceremony of Retreat was
performed. After the Anthem, much louder, the band played Retreat. The
colors crept down the flagstaff, into the reverent arms of a pair of
Service Policemen.

"Oh-deph, HAHMS! By line-of-battalions, line-of-companies,
line-of-platoons, line-of-squads, return to quarters and dismiss!" The
light colonel made one last salute to CINCK, and the little ballet on
the reviewing-stand was over. The troopers were now free to go in to
their showers, their latrines, their suppers, and their women.

"At ease," Hartford told the Terrible Third. "Rest. Smoke if you've got
'em."

The men chuckled dutifully at the oldest joke in the service. An
Axenite trooper, sealed in his germ-free safety-suit and helmet, is by
definition a non-smoker outside his Barracks. It would be another hour
they'd be outside, since the Third was next to the last of the fifty
platoons to swim home through the Syphon. While the companies on the
far left flank of the Regiment were ballooning-up and peeling-off in
columns-of-squads to enter the Barracks, Hartford went back to talk
with Piacentelli, C.O. of First Platoon.


                                  II

Getting inside the Barracks was a production. The safety-suits worn
outside presumably bore on their outer surfaces all the dust-borne
bugs native to Kansas. To carry these bacteria into the Barracks, to
be inspired and ingested by Axenites--humans who'd never before had a
bacterium inside their bodies--would wipe out the Regiment. Axenites
are chemically pure people. They have no immuniological experience.
Their gamma-globulin is low, their intestinal walls are thin. They may
be killed by a light salting of staphyllococci, a soupcon of strep, or
just a pinch of B. subtilis, a buglet as innocuous to "normal" humans
as the dust-motes it inhabits.

The Syphon was the only entrance to the Barracks. It opened as the "Wet
Gut," a ramp leading downward into liquid disinfectant which finally
filled a tunnel, which ran the length of the Barracks. Each trooper,
as he walked down into the disinfectant, grabbed the hand-holds at
either side to pull himself along. Half-swimming through a turbulent
portion that tugged at his suit with cavitations designed to loose the
gummiest particle of bug-dirt, he came to a quieter section where he
wormed along in silence, watching the man ahead of him, his stay in the
antiseptic gauged to make the outside of his safety-suit as germ-free
as the inside.

The Wet Gut ended in an upslope. The troopers walked out, dripping,
into a hallway returning in the direction from which they'd just
swum. This upper arm of the Syphon was a hallway so brilliantly
lighted that the trooper had to drop his polarizing shields over his
eyes. The air here in the Hot Gut was spiced with ozone from the
ultra-violet sources. As each man strode down the Hot Gut at a set
pace, his suit was bathed in u-v light from lamps in the ceiling,
floor and walls. Just as he was washed sufficiently in the Wet Gut
to kill the sturdiest-shelled spore of anthrax, the most insistently
cysted protozooan, in the Hot Gut he was laved in actinic radiation
powerful enough to afford a one hundred per cent safety factor against
his bringing viable bug-dirt into the Barracks. At the very end of
the Syphon, so that his safety-suit wouldn't stink of disinfectant
or crack from ozone-rot, the trooper was blasted from all sides by a
needle-shower of sterile water. Then he was home.

The platoon to the left of the Terrible Third had ballooned and was
column-of-squadding toward the entrance to the Syphon. "At ease, men,"
Hartford said. "Increase suit-pressure one pound. Open and check
reserve air-tanks. Close off filters." The men blimped a bit. Their
suits sausaged out around their arms and legs. Should some trooper
have a pinhole in his safety-suit, the positive pressure within would
keep the deadly antiseptic solution from seeping in. "Okay, men. First
squad off to the sheep-dip. Check the man ahead of you for bubbles.
This is Save-Your-Buddy Week," Hartford said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fat-legged and stiff, the men of Third Platoon waddled through the
doorway and down the ramp into the bug-juice. One by one they went
under, tugging themselves along through the turbulent area, past that;
then turning over in three planes so that the man behind them could
spot bubbles coming from any part of their safety-suit. A leak, of
course, meant Decontamination. Decontamination meant an all-over shave,
a load of antibiotics and quarantine. But it was better that one man
should suffer this from time to time than that the Barracks should be
sullied with a single bit of germ-laden dust.

The pale-green murk of the Wet Gut and the desert brightness of the Hot
Gut were the gates of home, and welcome.

Hartford saw the Terrible Third off to their quarters, then got
together with Piacentelli to go up to Officers' Country. It was good to
un-clam helmets and breathe the inside air, smelling faintly green from
having swept across the gardens on Level Eight. Hartford shucked off
his blue suit and draped it over a refreshing unit. The device buzzed
into action, washing, drying and recharging the safety-suit with fresh
filters and reserve air and water. The moment the refresher had grunted
an okay to his safety-suit, Hartford carried it, clean and sweet as
the day it had left the Goodyear plant on Titan, to hang it up in his
locker, ready for his next foray onto bug-dirt.

Piacentelli was already under a shower. "Come on, jay-bird," he
shouted. "Last one out buys the beers."

"No contest," Hartford said, setting the shower-dial. "I'm gonna stay
under water for three weeks." He revolved blissfully beneath cold and
angry needles.

Piacentelli, snowed in with suds and steam, yelled through the blasting
water. "How'd you rate O.G. the night we get in?" he asked. "I thought
you were Nasty Nef's fairhaired boy."

Hartford turned off his shower. "I got nothing better to do," he said.
He stood on the drier for a minute. "I don't mind being Officer of the
Guard, so long as I can eat supper off a plate instead of through a
tube." He stepped into his shorts, pulled on sneakers and tugged on a
tee-shirt that had stenciled over its shoulders the two half-inch gold
stripes of his rank.

Pia dressed in a similar uniform. "It isn't the Messhall I miss,"
he said. "It's this. No number of ingenious engines, valves and
relief-tubes can still my nostalgia for the simple dignity of our
Barracks latrines."

       *       *       *       *       *

Junior Officers' Mess was set in what looked like a park, except that
the bushes were tomato-plants and the trees grew apples. The tables
were mostly full. "All the subalterns getting in a quick sundowner,"
Pia remarked, finding a two-place table yet untaken. A Service Company
K.P. in the brief skirt-and-halter Class B's the women wore informally
in the Barracks came to take their order. "Big cold beer for me,
honey," Pia said. "The other gentleman is tonight's O.G., so he'll have
a black, black coffee."

Hartford stared after the girl. "You're right, Pia," he said. "No
matter how comfy Goodyear makes those safety-suits, home is best."

"You bachelors are a threat to the Table of Organization," Piacentelli
said. "You'd breed us right out of house and home if you had a chance."

"Damned right," Hartford said.

"You could find a girl," Piacentelli said.

"They all itch to get married," Hartford explained. "They come out to
these germy planets like they used to go to Purdue. The man-woman ratio
is in their favor. And biology. Pia, I've seen bears you wouldn't glim
twice on Titan turn into love-goddesses after six months here. I'll
meet some Service Company corporal, say. She'll look to me like the
prettiest li'l thing since Adam's costectomy, and I'll call in at the
Orderly Room to have us assigned Family Quarters. Back at Home Base,
she'll turn out to be something you scare kids quiet with. She'll talk
all the time, leave lipstick on drinking-glasses, or play bridge and
talk about it. First thing you know, I'll be volunteering for another
five years duty on bug-dirt, just for a chance to leave her behind."

"So pick up a local germ," Piacentelli suggested. "If they can't
decontaminate you, they'll send you to Earth. Lots of women on Earth."

"I'd do it," Hartford said, "but I'm still more scared of microbes than
lustful for a woman. Here's Dimples with our chow."

"Dimples?" Piacentelli asked as the girl came up with their tray.

"Watch her when she walks away," Hartford suggested.

"You must keep a carton of goat-glands under your bunk, Lee,"
Piacentelli said. "Marriage isn't all bad. I've done pretty well with
Paula."

Hartford nodded. Paula Piacentelli, a lieutenant in the Service
Companies, was a pretty decent sort. "Where is she now?" he asked.

"She'll be on the Status Board tonight," Piacentelli said. "You'll be
in the Board Room with her. Lee, I've got a favor to ask you. As O.G.
you'll be in charge tonight."

"Paula will be in charge," Hartford said. "I'll be sleeping."

"If I go outside, though, it will need your okay as well as Paula's,"
Piacentelli said.

"Who's going outside with you?"

"That's the sticky bit," Piacentelli said. "I'd like to go outside
alone."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Want to run in the rain in your little bare skin?" Hartford asked.
"Mix it up with a Stinker maiden? Paula wouldn't like that. Besides,
you might get yourself jack-rolled by some Indigenous Hominid who
doesn't like Axenites running his planet."

"I want to work on my Kansan-Standard Dictionary," Piacentelli said.

"Bug-dirt," Hartford said. "Don't tell lies."

"All right, then," Piacentelli said. "I've got an idea that might lead
to the most important discovery ever made on Kansas. Paula suggested
it. I want to prove it."

"Tell Nasty Nef about your idea," Hartford said, signalling the
waitress for a second cup of stay-awake. "Give CINCK something clever
to report when the supply ship lands, and you'll have your silver
stripes before I will. Wouldn't Paula love that, though? Captain
Piacentelli, I'd have to salute first."

"Nasty Nef wouldn't consider our idea," Piacentelli said. "He wouldn't
be happy to know that I've been studying the Kansan language, even. A
common humanity between us Axenites and the Indigenous Hominids is a
notion not welcome to the world of Colonel Nef. _Brother_ Nef, I might
say."

Hartford leaned against the table to press a fist against Piacentelli's
propped elbow. "Don't say that, Pia," he whispered. "I'm not political;
I'm not interested; I don't care whether the Brotherhood even exists."

"Yes, Virginia; there is a Brotherhood," Piacentelli said. "And our
Nasty Nef is a Brother."

"He's a number of things," Hartford said. "He's our CO; he's CINCK;
he's an SOB. But he's our boss, and 'Brotherhood' is a dangerous
word." He sipped his coffee. "Tell you what, Pia. If you want to go
out and talk Gook with the Gooks, I'll fix it for you to draw picket
duty tonight. The man who's got picket has been married only a month,
and spent three weeks of that in a safety-suit out in the woods. I'm
sure he'll relinquish to you the pleasure of a night's romp as picket
officer."

"Can you do it?"

"An O.G. can do anything, during those hours when his superior officers
are asleep," Hartford said.

"You're a buddy," Piacentelli said. "I'll give you free tutoring in
Kansan for the rest of our tour."

"_Do mo arigato gazaimashita_," Hartford said. "Thanks to your mumbling
the stuff in our room, I already talk like a Stinker." He stood up.
"I'm going down to the Board Room. Pick your companion for picket,
and come on down when you've dressed." Hartford bowed, Kansas-style.
"_Shitsurei itashimasu ga ..._" he said politely, and left to assume
his duties as O.G.


                                  III

As one of the seventy-six male lieutenants of the Regiment, Hartford
pulled O.G. about once every eleven weeks. His Terrible Third drew duty
with him as Guard Platoon. All of them could expect to sleep through
the night undisturbed, unless Nasty Nef held a dry-run, falling them
out for a Simulated Problem. Nef was tired tonight, though; the Guard
could sleep. Only the two men on picket and the handful of Service
Company personnel on duty at the Status Board need stay awake tonight.

Awake or sleeping, the security of First Regiment would rest this
night in the hands of Lee Hartford. It was he who bore the final
responsibility for allowing no living thing to enter the Barracks
except in a well-scrubbed safety-suit; for assuring that the air his
sleeping comrades breathed was sterile and dustless; that the Syphon's
poisonous bug-juice was of the proper pH and germicidity; and for
checking that the whereabouts of every Axenite on Kansas was reflected
on the Status Board. That these duties were complex was attested by the
assignment of a Service Company officer to the Board, a woman who would
watch the Board's bands of lights and meters every moment. Hartford
could sleep; he was the Responsible Male. Mrs. Paula Piacentelli,
1/Lt. S.C. (Gnotobiotics Spec.), had to remain awake: she was the
Knowledgeable Woman.

Hartford found Paula already at her work in the Board Room. Only a bit
over five feet tall, Piacentelli's wife was concentrated woman of the
most splendid sort. When Hartford had told her that Pia was taking the
picket, she frowned. "I hope he doesn't plan anything foolish."

"Me? Foolish?" Piacentelli demanded from the elevator. He walked up,
clammed shut in his blue safety-suit, ready to hit bug-dirt. Under one
arm he carried a package sheathed in opaque plastic. Behind him, in the
gray safety-suit of an enlisted trooper, was a man Hartford recognized
as Corporal Bond, machine-gunner from Pia's platoon. "Lieutenant
Gabriel Piacentelli reporting with one man, Sir and Ma'am," he said,
saluting his wife and Hartford.

"At ease, Weenie-head," Hartford said. "With you and Bond on picket
amidst the sunflowers, I won't sleep a wink all night." He turned to
the corporal. "Did you sure-enough volunteer for this duty?" he asked.

"Yes, sir!" Bond said. "I voluntarily assumed the duty of absorbing a
fifth of Lt. Piacentelli's Class-VI Scotch. The Lieutenant was kind
enough to reciprocate by offering me this tour."

"He gave you Scotch?" Hartford turned to Piacentelli. "Gabe, for a jug
of Scotch I'd have gone on picket with you myself. What's that you're
taking outside with you? Lunch?"

"A microscope," Piacentelli said. "I'm doing a little research for
Paula." His wife nodded. A gnotobiotics technician, responsible for
maintaining the bacteriological security of the Barracks, she had
business with microscopes.

"Want to give me the word on this romp of yours?" Hartford asked.

"Standard picket, Lee," Piacentelli said. "I'll learn a little Kansan,
take care of Paula's project and tell you all about it when we get
back."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Let's see your weapons." Hartford inspected Bond's Dardick-rifle and
Piacentelli's Dardick-pistol. Both weapons were loaded, clean and
wrapped up for their trip through the Wet Gut in plastic sleeves.
The trucks and heavy weapons stayed outside on bug-dirt. The lighter
weapons and all ammunition came back inside the Barracks with the
troopers who carried them. The weapons were detail-stripped on each
re-entry, irradiated with u-v and fit with fresh sleeves. As had been
discovered with the first axenic animals, in the 1930's, keeping a
mammal germ-free is a formidable task. When that mammal is a human
being and a soldier the job is double-tough.

"Check out a jeep," Hartford said. "Report each half-hour. Don't shoot
any Stinkers ... sorry, I mean Indigenous Hominids. Try not to hit a
camelopard with the jeep; we're low on replacement parts. In fact, be
careful. Okay, Pia?"

"Done and done, Exalted One."

Hartford dropped his voice. "I'd feel easier in my mind if I knew
what's so important as to require your desertion of our mutual womb
tonight, Pia."

"Language study, you might say," Piacentelli replied.

"_Ha! So desa ka?_" Hartford replied. "That's so much bug-dirt, and you
know it."

"_Ha!_" Piacentelli said. "See you at dawn. Take care of my wife,
buddy."

"Aren't you going to kiss her good night?" Hartford asked.

Pia grinned through his clammed-shut helmet and clomped to the elevator
with Bond. They were en route to the Hot Gut and the Wet Gut, the
twisting hallway from the sterile First Regiment Barracks to the living
night of Kansas.

Hartford turned.

Paula Piacentelli wore the short skirt, knee-hose and short-sleeved
blouse of Pioneer green that was the Class B uniform for females inside
the Barracks. She looked, Hartford thought, remarkably delectable;
and he again congratulated his friend on his luck in getting her. He
returned his attention to the Status Board, which Paula was conning.
Two red lights flickered on above the ground-floor diagram of the
Barracks, indicating that the two men of the picket had entered the Hot
Gut. A moment later these lights blinked off, and two lighted over the
diagram of the Wet Gut. Piacentelli and Bond were swimming now, towing
their weapons in ballooning plastic sleeves. Sterile, on their way out
into a filthy world, these two men were the outpost that would protect
through the night their hundreds of brothers and sisters sleeping safe
_in utero_. Freud, thou shouldst have lived this hour! Hartford mused.

       *       *       *       *       *

Piacentelli turned the ignition key of the jeep he'd chosen. With the
starting cough of the engine, one of the rank of TV screens over the
Status Board lighted. The camera eye was looking out the rear-view
mirror of the jeep, and picked up Pia's helmeted head and the shoulder
of his companion. "We're off to see the Wizard, the Wonderful Wizard of
Oz!" Piacentelli sang.

His wife spoke into the microphone before her. "Don't do anything
foolish, Lieutenant," she said. "And remember, all transmissions are
recorded and are audited, at random, by the Base Commander."

"Transmission received, receiver contrite," Piacentelli reported back.
"Okay, Paula-Darling. From now on till Bond and I swim home, we'll be
as military as GI soap." He flicked the TV monitor around to look out
the windshield and started the jeep down the road toward Stinkerville.
The duty of the picket was to chug around outside at random, hitting
all the cross-roads, settlements and high spots of the countryside near
the Barracks; to interview late-riding Indigenous Hominids and inquire
their business being out; to conduct such searches of Stinker homes and
hideaways as might seem useful to the occupying Axenites; and to remain
at all times in contact with the officers on duty at the Status Board.

As the picket got underway, Hartford went down to the Terrible Third's
area to check quickly through the two-man apartments. Knock on the
door; "As you were, Troopers." A brisk inspection of two safety-suits,
gaping beside their owners' bunks like firemen's boot-sheathed pants.
The men were quiet. Guard-duty meant that any socializing with Service
Company troopers was impossible for a night, and militated against any
intake of alcoholic beverage. It was a bore, especially after three dry
and womanless weeks in the field. Hartford visited his Platoon Sergeant
last: "Sergeant Felix, could you have our bunch standing on bug-dirt
ten minutes after I blew the whistle? Very well, then. Good night,
Felix."

Having demonstrated to his troopers that he was suffering the same
strictures as they, Hartford went back to the O.G. cubicle in the
Board Room. He checked his own safety-suit, his plastic-packaged
Dardick-pistol, said good night to Paula Piacentelli and lay down to
begin his first night's sleep outside a safety-suit in three weeks.

But sleep didn't come easily.

There was the murmur from the Board Room; Piacentelli's half-hourly
reports. "Nothing to report, Paula. I'm at Road Junction (41-17). No
I.H. activity. No excitement at all."

"Continue random patrol, Lieutenant."

"Yes, Dear. I'm going to run down to Kansannamura (42-19) for my next
call-in."

"Carry on, Lieutenant."

Pia was in the best possible hands with Paula on duty, Hartford mused.
The Status Board was really a woman's job. The girls of the Service
Companies were the house-keepers of the Barracks, the guardians of the
Regimental lares and penates. Paula, for example, had as her primary
duty gnotobiotic control: the maintenance of the whole germ-free system
of the Barracks, from the Hot-&-Wet Guts to safety-suit inspection
and the upkeep of the Decontamination Vehicles. Behind the women on
Board-duty, however, was always at least one male, combat-trained
Officer of the Guard, ready (once awakened and briefed by the female
help) to take armed men into the field.

But meanwhile, Hartford wanted to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour passed, and at its end Pia made his report: "Picket
reporting, Paula. I'm going into the village. Corporal Bond will remain
with the jeep, and will keep the transmitter open till I get back.
Okay?"

"Be careful, Lieutenant," Paula Piacentelli said, combining affection
with military formality.

Hartford, deciding that sleep was impossible, got up and cold-showered.
Dressing in fresh Class B's, he walked out to join Paula at the Status
Board. The TV screen showed Bond, the sheathed Dardick-rifle slung over
his shoulder, pacing back and forth in front of the jeep, glancing
from time to time toward the walls of Kansannamura, white in the light
of the skyful of stars. He was nervous, evidently aware of the fact
that Kansas was largely unexplored, her potential for midnight mayhem
untested. Bond spoke across his shoulder. "The lieutenant has been gone
for a quarter hour, Ma'am," he said. "Do you want me to go in and ask
him to come out?"

"Wait another quarter-hour, Corporal," Paula said. She explained to
Hartford, "What he's got to do may take a little time." They watched
the screen. Bond climbed back into the jeep, where he sat with his
rifle between his knees, sweeping his attention around him, at the
village, at the road behind, at the sunflower-fields, where the
blossoms were bleached white and the leaves enameled black by starlight.

With Paula's agreement, Hartford pressed the microphone-switch to talk
with Bond. "Have you tried to tap Piacentelli on his suit-receiver,
Corporal?"

"Yes, sir," Bond said. "First thing. No answer."

"Turn your bitcher full up, then," Hartford said. "Tell Lieutenant
Piacentelli that the O.G. wants him out on the road within five
minutes."

"Done and done, sir." Bond tongued the bitcher's controls to Full
Volume and repeated the message. Echoes bounced back from the walls of
Stinkerville and lost themselves in the tangle of sunflowers.

No one answered.

The village seemed as much asleep as it had been before Bond's bellow.
The Kansans were never hasty to volunteer response to Axenites; they
knew that troopers meant trouble.

"Piacentelli is busy at something," Hartford said, as much to reassure
himself as Pia's wife. "I think I'll go out and have a look." He spoke
to Bond: "Get out of the jeep, but stay close to it. Report any haps
immediately. Watch for lights, listen for small-arms fire."

"Done and done, sir."

Hartford phoned Felix, his platoon sergeant. "Report to the Board Room
to sub for me," he said. "Wake the Platoon Guide and tell him to stand
ready to fall the Guard out, but not to wake anyone else yet. This is
probably a nothing, Felix; Lt. Piacentelli just went for a walk in
Stinkerville."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Command Light, top in the tier of all the hierarchy of
red-yellow-green-white Status-Board indicators, flashed alive.

"A nothing?" Nasty Nef's voice demanded. "What sort of talk is that,
Lieutenant? If I've been properly interpreting the past five minutes'
transmissions, we've got an Axenite officer stranded in the middle of
a Stinker village. This, Mister, is not a nothing. Call out the Guard.
Prepare to join me in a Stinkerville shakedown. Those Gooks got to
learn they can't play fast-and-easy with Axenite troopers."

"Done and done, sir!" Hartford snapped. He toggled the phone to get
Felix back. "Felix, fall the boys out beside the Syphon. We've got the
Old Man hitting bug-dirt with us, so look sharp."

"The colonel's going out with us?" Felix asked.

"Yes. There must be more to this situation than meets the company-grade
eye," Hartford said. "Diaper-up our darlings and stand by in the Hot
Gut, Felix."

"Done and done!"

Twenty seconds later a figure in Santa Claus red came clashing into
the room. Hartford, half into his blue safety-suit, came to a clumsy
attention. The newcomer, his helmet clammed shut all ready for
contamination, bellowed, "Get with it, Mister!"

"Yes, sir." Hartford fit himself into the suit, a sort of cockpit, a
congeries of valves, gauges, counters and vetters. In a moment he'd
sealed himself in the sterile suit, checked his air-filters and air
reserve. "The Guard is assembled in the Hot Gut, sir, ready to take the
field."

"Dam' well better be," Nef said. "Lead off, Mister." He turned to Paula
Piacentelli. "Send a Decontamination Vehicle after us, Lieutenant. No
telling what those Stinker devils have cooked up with Piacentelli."
Back to Hartford: "You're in command of the Guard, I'll observe and
offer suggestions."

"Tain-HUT!" Platoon Sergeant Felix saluted the scarlet-clad colonel
and the blue-clad lieutenant as they stepped from the elevator into
the electric atmosphere of the Hot Gut. The Guard snapped to, their
plastic-packaged Dardick-rifles at order arms.

"Take 'em out, Felix," Hartford said. "Two personnel carriers,
a .50-caliber m.g.-mounted jeep fore and aft. You and the colonel take
the rear jeep; I'll lead. Have the men unbag their weapons the instant
we're outside. Any questions?"

"No, sir."

"Move out," Hartford said.


                                  IV

The squads peeled off and double-timed down the Hot Gut. Man by man
they dipped into the Wet Gut for their swim outside. They'd been
drilled for speed in exiting. If the Regiment were needed outside,
the Syphon could become a literal bottle-neck. As the last squad
splashed into the antiseptic solution, Hartford turned to Colonel Nef.
"Sir, I have a question," he said.

"Hurry it up, Mister."

"Isn't this a bit extreme, sir? We're going out to take one man out
of a primitive village where we're not even sure he's in trouble. And
we're carrying enough firepower to blast into an armed city."

"I don't trust the Gooks," the colonel said. "Their bucolic way of
life may be a fraud, designed to lull us into complacency. Tonight
we may discover that they're plotting the overthrow of the Garrison,
using weapons and tactics they've kept secret. I hope such is the case,
Lieutenant. It would give us adequate cause to wipe the Stinkers off
Kansas and make this as clean a world as Titan."

"Sir...."

"Move, Mister," Nef said. "Piacentelli has been in Stinkerville for
fifty minutes. Let's get him out."

The four trucks roared down the plateau toward the Indigenous Hominid
hamlet at its foot. When the first Axenite Pioneers landed on the
planet, bacteria-free as all men in space had to be, they'd set up camp
near the spot where First Regiment Barracks now stood. They saw the
fields of sunflowers, grown for food and cloth, and heard the natives
call the nearest village Kansannamura. From that time on, this world
was Kansas.

There was no moonlight--Kansas has no moon--but the headlamps of the
four vehicles were wasted against the bright ribbon of road, lighted
as it was by the sheet of stars that melted together in a metallic
ceiling over the night. The men sat with their rifles between their
knees, the plastic sleeves stripped off. Each of these Dardick-rifles
could fire a solid stream of death. Each round of ammunition was
fitted with a matrix that served as chamber, cartridge and the first
fraction-of-an-inch of barrel. A magazine of forty such rounds could be
hosed through the rifle in half a second. The troopers sped downhill,
through sunflower fields black and silver in the light of the stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

The personnel carriers and the jeeps scuffed to a halt by the village
gate, the men scattering like shrapnel, according to the book. Colonel
Nef spoke to Hartford on the command-band. "Move in, Lieutenant. Bring
out Piacentelli. Any Stinker resistance is to be treated as open
rebellion."

"Yes, sir." Hartford spoke to his men: "First squad, lead scout,
forward to the gate."

The scout, his plastic safety-suit and the glass of his helmet
glinting highlights, scuttled to the gate. He kicked the gate
open--Piacentelli had evidently left it ajar--and entered, rifle-first.
"First squad, follow me in column. Open to Line-of-Skirmishers in the
square. Second squad, follow in the same manner. Third squad; maintain
your interval and stand ready."

Hartford ran, pistol in hand, through the open gate. It was like
charging some Roman ruin unpeopled for three centuries, like a field
exercise with boulders marking obstacles to be won. There was no sign
of natives. Their shop-boards hung bearing the picture-script the
Kansans used, quiet as the marbles in a cemetery. Hartford directed
first squad in a sweep through the alleys, searching for Piacentelli.
Second squad clattered through the gate behind them, took up a skirmish
line, and moved in to cover the square as first squad disappeared into
the doorways and alleys of Stinkerville.

The village, except for its beasts, might have been deserted. These
animals, camelopards used for riding and to carry burdens, woke
and gazed serenely down at the interrupters of their vegetable
dreams, blinking their liquid half-shuttered eyes. Boots clattered
on cobblestones. The houses were unlighted. "Throw on your i-r,"
Hartford ordered. As they moved into the dark, narrow ways, the men
beamed infra-red light from the projectors on their safety-suits, the
bounced-back, invisible light being transduced to black-and-green
chiaroscuro by passage through the stereatronic goggles dropped inside
their helmets.

"Turn the Stinkers out, Mister," Nef command-banded.

"Into the houses," Hartford signaled. Ahead, a boot slammed wood, and
hinges burst. To the restless night sounds of the camelopards in their
stalls, the click of military boots on brick, and the rustle of rifles
against safety-suits was added the whispering of families rousing from
their beds. Hand in hand from father to mother to elder brother, down
the scale to the youngest, the Kansans stumbled out into their little
courtyards. "_Ano hito wa dare desu ka?" "Abunai yo!" "Shikata ga
nai...._"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Any sign of Piacentelli yet?" Nef demanded.

"Not yet, sir," Hartford signalled.

"Feed a candle into every building, Lieutenant. We'll get these Gooks
in the open and interrogate till we find our man."

"Done and done, sir," Hartford said, stepping out of the way of a
little girl fleeing toward the village square with an even littler girl
strapped to a pack-board on her back. He passed on the order. "Fire
in ten seconds, nine, eight ... now!" Each man of first squad tossed
a Lake Erie Lightning Universal Gas Candle through the window nearest
him. A little over a second later a dozen grenades spit out a cloud
of smoke with a hiss like a bursting fire-hose, and the outer air was
filled with an eye-stinging gas. The Indigenous Hominids spilled out of
their homes in all directions now; coughing, choking, children rubbing
the smoke particles into their half-wakened eyes. Two camelopards,
blinded like their masters, blundered into the square, tears streaming
from their reproachful eyes, twelve feet above the pavement. Second
squad's men danced clear of the beasts and hallooed them out the gate.

Somewhere back in an alley a first-squad trooper tapped his trigger,
jetting steel against overhanging roof-tiles. "Nail that shot, Mister!"
Nef demanded.

Hartford heard the squad leader: "It's Lieutenant Piacentelli, sir.
He's here."

"Bring him out, man; bring him out!" Nef's excited voice triggered a
new string of rifle bursts.

Hartford tongued his bitcher full-volume: "Cease fire, you idiots!
Piacentelli, head for the square."

"Stop it, for God's sake, stop it!" Piacentelli shouted, his
unamplified voice coming from a smoke-filled alley. Hartford plunged
into the dark smoke--a tear-gas grenade had set afire some of the
sun-flower-paper room dividers, and kindled with them a row of wooden
houses--and shouted for Piacentelli. A blabrigar, as blind in the smoke
as the men, blundered against Hartford's helmet. "_Yuke! Yuke!_" the
bird screamed, grabbing hold of the transceiver-antenna that horned up
from the helmet. Hartford grabbed the blabrigar and tossed it up above
the melee. He heard it flying in circles, searching for its Stinker
owners, chanting the last words they'd said to it: "_Yuke! Yuke!
Yuke!_"--"Go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Everything was burning. Even through the safety-suit Hartford suffered
from the heat. He retracted his i-r goggles, useless in all this smoke.
Nef called. "I'm coming in, Mister." Hartford acknowledged. Great. One
more blind man wandering in the smoke was what he needed.

He tongued his bitcher loud and shouted; "Gabe! Come this way. Gabe!
Gabe!" The heat was intolerable. He positive-pressured his suit,
ballooning the fabric away from his skin. How hot, he wondered, would
the rounds packed into the butt of his Dardick-pistol have to get
before they exploded?

As though in answer, a snap of gunfire sounded from the fog ahead.
Some meat-head had spooked. There were more shots as other troopers
fired at their fantasies. "Cease fire, damn it!" Nef shouted over the
command-circuit. "If anyone was hurt by you idiots, I'll court-martial
every man with smoke in his gun barrel." Hartford hurried on. Ahead of
him in the alley he heard Colonel Nef's voice, uncharacteristically
soft. "Hartford, join me. I've found Piacentelli." Ahead in the smoke
was a pinkness: the scarlet-suited commander kneeling above a body on
the bricks.

Here in the open of planetary air, available to all the microscopic
beasts of Kansas, Piacentelli was wearing only Class B's; his sneakers,
shorts and tee-shirt. The center of the shirt sopped blood from the
bullet-hole that funneled into Axenite Lieutenant Piacentelli's chest.

Nef stood. "The Decontamination Vehicle should be standing by," he
said. "Get Piacentelli outside. We may be able to save him." He sounded
unhopeful.

Hartford draped his friend's body across his shoulder. The smoke was
bad, but he'd memorized his course through it. The air sucked in
through his filter was clean, but hot. His helmet steamed opaque. As he
stumbled out, blind, but guided by the colonel's voice, two men came
forward to take Piacentelli over to the Decontamination Vehicle parked
by the village gate. In the cooler air Hartford's helmet cleared. A
girl gnotobiotician from the Decontamination Squad pressed the pickup
of her helmet's "ears" against Piacentelli's bloody chest.

She looked up. "He's dead, sir," she said.

Nef's voice boomed from his bitcher. "Burn the Stinker village!" he
shouted. "These Gooks will pay for Piacentelli's death with their
homes."

Hartford felt imminent danger of vomiting, bad business in a
safety-suit. He fought it as he looked around. The column of smoke
rising from the buildings already fired was sweeping around, carried
by the morning wind that poured off the plateau. Everything within the
walls of the rammed-earth houses would be incinerated. Kansannamura was
destroyed. "Regroup by the vehicles," Hartford spoke to his troopers.
He walked back to his jeep, the village flaming behind him.

The Decontamination Squad checked Hartford's safety-suit, and found it
sound despite its roasting. Piacentelli they cocooned in plastic: he
was contaminated and dangerous. As the five trucks rolled back toward
the Barracks, they met families of Indigenous Hominids, smoke-stained,
who retreated back into the sunflower-fields as the troopers drew near
them. The Stinkers seemed to have salvaged little from the flames
beyond an occasional blabrigar, perched on an old man's shoulder,
or now and then a camelopard, fitted with a saddle and carrying a
blanket-wrapped bundle of clothing and cooking-pots.


                                   V

Hartford had to see Piacentelli's body placed in the Barracks morgue,
where a necropsy would be performed by a safety-suited gnotobiotician.
It was seldom that an Axenite was contaminated. Rarer yet was the death
of a trooper who'd been exposed to bacteria. Information held in Pia's
body might someday save lives.

Hartford, directing the sealing-off of the morgue from the rest of the
Barracks, was not comforted by these reflections. He unsuited, shaved
and showered, and put on fresh Class B's to finish what remained of
this O.G. tour. On his way back up to the Board Room he had to pass the
morgue again. Colonel Nef, in the midst of a cluster of lesser ranks,
was there. On a wheeled cart, covered by a sheet, was a second body.

Hartford stopped. "What happened, sir?" he demanded. "Who is it?"

Nef raised the corner of the sheet with a hand that seemed infinitely
weary. The body was Paula Piacentelli. "Another accident," the Colonel
grunted.

A hydroponics corporal, S.C., spoke up. "She was relieved of duty as
soon as she heard about her husband's death, sir. Someone should have
stayed with her. She went up to Level Eight to be alone. There are only
two of us on duty there through the night. She must have blundered off
the walkway, blinded by her tears. However it happened, she caught
hold of a lighting-cable where the insulation was frayed, and was
electrocuted the moment she touched the wet seeding-bed. Colonel Nef
found her there."

"I was going to console her on Gabriel Piacentelli's death," Nef said.
"Leave the body here and clear out, all of you." No refrigeration was
needed for Paula's corpse, of course. An uncontaminated Axenite was
preserved by purity. The body might dry a bit, the integrity of the
internal organs suffer somewhat from the corrosive effects of their own
juices: but Paula's corpse would otherwise remain uncorrupted until
taken outside and buried in bug-dirt. "Hartford," Nef said, "I'd like
to have a talk with you."

"I'm still on O.G., sir," Hartford said.

"And I relieve you of that duty," Nef snapped. "Come up to my quarters."

Nasty Nef's sitting-room had the only window in the Barracks, a
skylight through which poured the brilliance of Kansas's pyrotechnic
flood of stars. "Rest, Hartford. Sit down. Brandy?"

Hartford allowed that he could use some.

"What do you think of tonight's adventure, Lee?" Nef asked. "Don't look
startled. I know the first name of every officer and non-com in the
Regiment."

"What happened, sir, was horrible," Hartford said.

"I understand your feelings," Nef said. "Two tragic accidents, killing
your two closest friends the same night. I am certain that the loss
of these comrades will fire your zeal for getting the Stinkers under
control. Isn't that right, Lee?" Nef took a cigar from the humidor next
his chair.

"With all respect, sir," Hartford said, placing his empty brandy-glass
on the table to his right, "I can hardly see how the events tonight
were caused by the Indigenous Hominids."

"You must use the official name for the Gooks, mustn't you?" Nef
mused. His voice turned harsh: "Someone stripped the safety-suit off
Piacentelli, Mister."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hartford nodded, his face pale. The "A" of the Axenite's alphabet
was Apprehension. As a germ-free--axenic, gnotobiotic--human being,
he is superior in most ways to ordinary men. He's usually larger and
stronger. He never has dental caries, pimples, appendicitis, the
common cold or certain cancers. No matter how much or how long he
sweats, the Axenite doesn't stink; nor do his other excretions. On a
contaminated world, however, the Axenite is a tender flower indeed. A
baby's breath can be death to him, if that baby be a "normal" human;
for no microbe is benign to the man without antibodies. To him a drop
of rain may reek with pestilence, the scent of evening may be a lethal
gas. "I can't understand their stripping Pia, sir," he said. "Why would
they do such a terrible thing?"

"Because they're Stinkers!" Nef said. "Can you imagine what it must be
like to be one of them? Every inch of your skin a-crawl with living
filth, your guts packed with foulness, your whole frame a compromise
with rottenness? Do you wonder that they'd delight to make us as
unwholesome as they are themselves?" Colonel Nef lighted the cigar he'd
been mulling. "Lee, do you think one Stinkerville destroyed is too high
a price for them to pay for having murdered two Axenite troopers? For
Piacentelli's wife is as much their victim as her husband."

Hartford shook his head. "I'm not sure, sir. What bothers me more than
anything else is that it's my fault Pia went out last night. He asked
me to arrange for him to replace the scheduled picket officer, and I
did."

"Lee, why was Piacentelli so anxious to pull this extra duty?" Nef
asked.

Hartford tried unobtrusively to squirm his chair out of the jet-stream
from Nef's cigar. "He told me he wanted to work on the language, sir,"
he said. "Pia really had such a project. He'd never had contact with
anyone with a speech other than Standard before, and the problem of
transducing one language into another fascinated him. The Kansans call
their speech _Nihon-go_. Pia taught me to understand some of it."

"A waste of your time, Lee," Nef said. "You'll never have occasion
to speak it. Be that as it may, unless Piacentelli was attempting to
coax a course in Bedroom Kansan from a Stinker maiden, I can hardly
understand why his lexigraphical labors should require him to unsuit
himself. No, Piacentelli was deliberately murdered."

"I'm puzzled, sir," Hartford admitted. "When we tossed those
smoke-candles, I heard Pia shouting for us to stop it. Would he have
done so if the Indigenous Hominids had him captive? Why did none of the
natives lift a hand against us, though we were burning their homes? Why
did Paula Piacentelli seem to know why Pia was going outside tonight?
Why did he take a microscope with him? Why did Paula kill herself?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Don't noise that last 'why' around the Barracks, Mister," Nef growled.
"Officially, she died in tear-blinded grief, an accident." He smiled.
"Whatever our reason for burning out Stinkerville, Lee, we got it
done. The fact that those half-humans down the hill bred and sweat and
poisoned the soil within half an hour's walk has been a stench in my
nostrils ever since we got here. Now they're gone. I'm as sorry as you
that the Piacentellis are dead. But the manner of their dying was such
as to assure Axenic mankind a new home."

"I'm not sure I understand you, sir."

Nef poured them each a second brandy. He raised his; Hartford of
necessity followed suit. "To Brotherhood," the colonel said. He stared
into Hartford's eyes. "To _the_ Brotherhood," he amended.

Hartford was tired, confused and in awe of Nef's rank; otherwise he
might have ventured protest. Nef sipped his drink. "I must emphasize,
Lee, that what I say is my opinion only, not Axenite policy. You see my
point."

"I do, sir," Hartford said.

"Forgive me, then, for prefacing my remarks with a bit of truism," Nef
said. "In all history before gnotobiotic man was cut from his mother
through cellophane, the human being was never pure organism. Before
us, every man who ever lived was, in fact, one mammal plus the sum
of millions of viruses, rickettsia, bacteria, fungi and molds. When
the old philosophers asked, 'What is man?' the answer could only be:
'Foul smell and blood in a bag.' We're the first men beyond that, Lee.
The first real men, True Men, members of the winner-species. _Homo
gnotobioticus_.

"We must destroy the bridge that led to us. We must destroy the
Stinkers. Not just these quasi-human natives here on Kansas, but the
Stinkers on Earth, and on every other planet where bug-laden man has
followed Axenite. What chance has _Homo sapiens_ to match his sapiency
against _Homo gnotobioticus_, when he is a bifurcate septic tank, a
polyculture of a thousand kinds of living dirt?"

Hartford finished his brandy, wishing he were anywhere else than in
Nasty Nef's quarters, tired, ill at ease and a little drunk from
the two brandies. "What do you propose, sir?" he asked with Academy
politeness.

"Aha!" Nef rejoiced, pouring them each another drink. "You justify
my trust, Lee. You perceive that I speak not merely if-ly,
philosophically, but as a man of action, leashed only by temporary
practicality." He leaned back in his chair and regarded Hartford more
as a sculptor might regard a recent product than a father a son, with
uncritical approval. "Where were you born, Lee?"

"On Titan, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I thought so. You have the mark of natal excellence," Nef said.
"You're a second or third-generation Axenite, then?"

"Third, sir," Hartford said.

"Splendid. Your grandparents were from their mothers' wombs untimely
ripp'd; your parents and yourself born normally, in germ-free ambience.
How fortunate we are, you and I! Third-generation Axenites. Eff-two of
a new race." Nef paused in his recital. "There is one fact that chafes
us, though. We, perforce the Columbuses of tomorrow, explorers of the
planets beyond even the stars we see here on the frontier, are held
back by our Stinker cousins. They have the proper feeling, that only
pure man might pioneer the alien worlds, for fear of destroying what he
finds there. But who will inherit those planets when we've finished our
explorations? Who will at the last till the fields of Kansas?"

"Colonists from Earth, sir," Hartford said. "From Eurus, Tinkle,
Westside, Unashamed, T'ang, Williams's World and Hope. From all the
planets normal man has colonized."

"Doesn't that annoy you, Lee?" Nef asked. "That our work's fruit is to
be enjoyed by shiploads of Stinkers?"

"They're as human as we, sir," Hartford said. He smiled. "You might say
they just haven't had our advantages."

"You're tender-minded, Lee," Nef said. "We garrison a hundred worlds
on the Frontier, planets our Stinker masters mustn't visit yet, least
Man contaminate some life-form yet unmet. We pioneer, clear planets as
safe, and move on. For reward, we Axenites have three worlds of our own
in the M'Bwene System, axenized for our use; we have the Academies on
Luna and Titan, and a dome on Pluto. _It's not enough._ We are the new
men, the next-comers to humanity. We must have worlds of our own. I,
and the Brotherhood whose hand here I am, intend that Kansas shall be
ours."

"What about the Stinkers?" Hartford asked. "What will happen to them if
we decide to axenize Kansas?"

"Maybe they'll leave," Colonel Nef said, smiling in the manner that
had won him the name "Nasty." "A few more punitive expeditions like
tonight's--an incendiary grenade was thrown at Kansannamura, did you
know that, Lee? I threw it--and we'll have no Stinkers underfoot.
We soon will be able to mop and polish this world to our own high
standards. We'll walk this lovely world without safety-suits and
breathe unfiltered air. We'll enter into our birthright, Lee." Nef
gazed at his cigar admiringly, though it had gone out. "So much for the
moment, Brother Hartford," he said. "Perhaps we'd both do well to get
some sleep."

Hartford jumped to attention and formally requested permission to
withdraw. Nef nodded. Hartford about-faced and left the room.


                                  VI

The things the colonel had told him hadn't fallen into place in his
mind yet. Hartford was numb of thought.

Back in his own room in B.O.Q. the numbness cleared a bit. He poured
himself a drink. Somehow, he thought, he'd become fairhaired boy to an
Attila the Hun, an Alaric the Goth, a Hitler, a Haman; an Ashurbanipal
I, a Rameses II. For Nef was equally with these a servant of Siva the
Destroyer, with his plan to make Man pure.

His purification would involve the destruction of all non-axenic men
and women all the way from the Home World to the newest beach-head on
the Frontier; the sterilization of a hundred worlds as culture media
for the new race; and the planting on the newly axenized soil of
colonies of _Homo gnotobioticus_, the feeder-on-hydroponic-greens, the
inodorous, the thin-gutted, the strong toothed Superman.

Nef's pogrom had begun with the raid on the village, Hartford mused,
his arms behind his head as he lay on his bunk. Nef had decided that
this green and pleasant world belonged to the silver men, the true men,
the new men. Us, Hartford thought. Earth's Stinkers, ordinary humanity
with its common cold and its caries, would follow the Kansan Indigenous
Hominid, and the Great Auk, into history.

The double funeral of the Lieutenants Piacentelli was to be held at
Retreat, outside the Barracks. Hartford wondered a bit at the haste
with which the two bodies were to be consigned to the earth of Kansas.
Perhaps haste was necessary because of the micro-organisms with which
poor Pia's corpse was necessarily contaminated.

Hartford grimaced. Contaminated humans must lead disgusting lives.
They smelled of ferments, were bloated with bacterially elaborated
gases, suffered rot in their very teeth. Their corpses--poor
forefathers!--suffered corruption that would never touch an Axenite,
whose unembalmed cadaver would last longer than the best-mummified
Pharaoh.

Whatever mysterious errand it had been that had taken Piacentelli
outside the Barracks, it had killed him. It was over.

Hartford marched the Terrible Third into position facing the graves,
cut into the soil at the base of the hundred-foot flagpole. The entire
regiment, less only the handful of men and women necessary to secure
the Barracks, was on the Parade Ground. Colonel Nef, his scarlet
safety-suit brilliant in the light of the setting sun, stood beside the
graves, a finger of his right gauntlet inserted to mark his place in
the black _Book of Honors and Ceremonies_.

The regiment stood at parade-rest as a truck brought the bodies of two
comrades through its ranks. As the improvised hearse halted and twelve
blue-suited casket-bearers stepped forward to lift the flag-draped
boxes, Nef called the regiment to attention. The bearers slow-marched
the caskets to the graves and placed them on the lowering-devices.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nef's words of funeral were few. He spoke of the dedication of the two
Axenites being laid to rest and bitterly accused the Stinkers--this
word seemed rude, in so formal a setting--of having murdered the young
couple. He spoke of condign justice, and of revenge.

This done, he called: "Escort, less firing-party. Present, HAHMS!
Firing-party, FIRE THREE VOLLEYS!"

The shots of the Dardick-rifles echoed down the plateau to the
smoldering village below. The Regimental Bugler, standing between the
heads of the graves, flicked on his instrument. As the last volley spat
from the muzzles of the rifles, the bugler played _Taps_.

Four men stepped forward to recover and fold the green-silk Pioneer
colors, and the caskets were lowered to corruption in alien earth. The
banner crept down the flagstaff, and the funeral was over.

Bone-weary, Hartford went from the Syphon to the refresher-room, where
he checked his safety-suit and hung it.

Another officer was there, still in his blue safety-suit. Hartford
wondered sleepily why he'd so long postponed unsuiting. Even the
fellow's helmet was sealed. "Our first deaths on Kansas," Hartford
remarked, wanting to coax the man into conversation and learn who he
was. "I'd never realized till now that we're really soldiers, subject
to violent death and formal burying." The man must be a replacement,
come in on the supply ship a month ago, Hartford thought. Black
hair, crewcut. Tanned. Must be from one of the M'Bwene Worlds, where
an Axenite's naked skin can bear unfiltered sunlight. "Both the
Piacentellis were my friends," Hartford said, determined to coax
speech from the stranger.

The man's bitcher boomed, evidently set on full volume. "_Mattaku
shirazu_," he said. "Excuse. Pia not teach entire use of Standard
tongue."

Hartford's right hand tore through the plastic pellicle over his
Dardick-pistol and brought the weapon to bear on the figure before him.
"You're a Stinker!" he said. "Pia's safety-suit--that's the suit you're
wearing."

"_Tonshu_," the Indigenous Hominid said, bowing his head. He indicated
the empty holster at his side: he was unarmed. "I come on _taku_,
here to your honored precincts, to speak of things done and of future
things. You are Hartford?"

Hartford thought quickly. His responsibility was to the Garrison.
This stranger was above all else a possible source of contamination,
a carrier of the micro-bugs that could kill every Axenite on Kansas.
Shooting him would rupture the safety-suit he wore. As it was, his
exterior surface was clean; he could have entered the Barracks only by
marching in from Retreat with the rest of the regiment, through the
sterilizing Syphon. "I am Hartford. Lee Hartford."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Pia said you are a good man," the stranger said, bowing.

"What is your name?"

"Renkei. As you say, I take Pia's _uwa-zutsumi_, this smooth garment."
Renkei indicated the safety-suit by slicking his hands over it. "I must
enter here to talk with Hartford. To enter, I must have garment. Pia,
my brother, is dead. I borrowed his garment. Can I, with you, stop
the ugly thing that began last night in Kansannamura? _Kuwashiku wa
zonzezu_; I do not know. I can but try."

What a perfect disguise a safety-suit made, Hartford thought. Besides,
it was the only passport a man needed to enter the Barracks. He stared
at the stranger. He looked no different to men Hartford had met before,
Axenites whose grandparents had been born by aseptic Caesarian section
in Nagoya or Canton, two of the great gnotobiotic centers of fifty
years ago. Renkei was a Stinker, a Kansan, an Indigenous Hominid
(ignominious name!); he was also, Hartford felt, a man.

"Tell me why you made the dangerous journey here, into the midst of
your enemies," he said.

"The death of our friend Pia. The burning of Kansannamura. The war
between my people and you who wear smooth garments," he said. "This is
_aru-majiki koto_."

"A thing that ought not to be," Hartford said, translating. He was glad
for the practice he'd gotten with Pia, speaking the native tongue. "Sit
down," he said. "You must explain, Renkei."

The refresher-room, a hall filled with lockers and the machinery that
automatically tested and refitted the safety-suits each time they
returned to the Barracks, had a dozen entrances and exits. As Renkei,
still completely sealed in Pia's safety-suit, sat on the bench beside
Hartford, the doors all closed at once. They hissed as the pneumatic
seals were set in their frames.

Contamination Alert! Someone, most likely the Service girl on watch at
the Status Board, had discovered that there was one more person in the
Barracks than could be accounted for. A crash-priority head-count had
been made. Each room and compartment had doubtless been eavesdropped
through the built-in TV eyes and microphone ears.

One door at the far end of the hall burst open. A squad of
safety-suited Service Police spilled in. At the point of their wedge
was the scarlet uniform of Colonel Nef. Dardick-pistol in hand, he ran
toward Renkei. "Don't shoot!" Hartford shouted, springing up.

"Get back, Mister," the colonel yelled. He dropped to one knee and
squeezed all twelve rounds into the seated figure to Hartford's right.
Service Police swooped down to pull Hartford away from the shattered
body of Renkei. The lieutenant's tee-shirt was stained,
however, by flecks of blood splashed up as the SPs' bullets chewed into
the Kansan. Hartford was contaminated.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the next hour, Hartford had no more to say about his disposition
than an angry bullock being dipped and scrubbed against an epidemic of
cattle ticks.

His purification consisted in a sudsing with antiseptic soaps, this
administered by a team of three Service Company gnotobioticians who
were completely indifferent to his modesty and who seemed determined
to peel off the outer surface of his skin. The women, safety-suited
against being themselves contaminated, shaved off all his hair and
ostentatiously packaged-up the shavings to be burned. They administered
parenteral and enteric doses of broad-spectrum antibiotics. By the
time the gnoto girls were finished, Hartford was as bald all over as a
six-weeks foetus, as sore as though he'd been sand-blasted, slightly
feverish as a result of the injections and madder than hell.

Ignoring his demands to see Colonel Nef at once, the Service Company
troopers helped him into his safety-suit. Hartford would have to live
inside the suit for a week's quarantine, watched carefully to see
whether a missed microbe would breed within him in spite of all the
measures taken.

Hartford's company commander refused him permission to speak to the
colonel. The lieutenant was to speak to no one concerning Renkei's
invasion of the Barracks. He would remain safety-suited inside the
Barracks or out; but would otherwise continue with his regular
duties.

Hartford returned to the refresher-room where the murder had taken
place. Renkei's macerated body had been removed for burning. The room
had been carefully decontaminated, to the extent of hosing it down with
detergent steam and individually re-refreshing each safety-suit in the
huge hall's rows of lockers.

There was nothing to be done against Nef's madness, Hartford thought.
He sat on the bench where Renkei had sat. The ultimate breakdown in
communication is silencing one side of the dialogue, he thought. That's
why killing a man is the ultimate sin; it removes forever the hope
of understanding him. It ends for all time the conversation by which
brothers may touch one another's mind.

What crap to find in a soldier's thoughts, Hartford told himself.
He was an Axenite trooper, a Pioneer, a pistol-packing officer of
infantry, commander of the Terrible Third Platoon. He was an Axenite,
dedicated by the immaculacy of his birth to the conquest of Man's
frontiers.

Hartford snapped his plastic-sheathed Dardick-pistol, death in a
supermarket wrapper, from his belt and placed it on the shelf of his
locker. He'd seen the village of Kansannamura burned. Pia had died
across his shoulder. Paula lay buried, too. Renkei's life had been
splashed out on a stream of bullets. Enough of death.

Hartford picked up a pack of field-ration squeeze-tubes and walked down
the hallway toward the Syphon.

His leaving would show on the Status Board, of course, but that didn't
matter any more. He was deserting the regiment.

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked through the valley of desert that was the Hot Gut, and down
into the birth-canal that was the Wet Gut, to emerge in the evening air
of Kansas. The motor sergeant, stationed outside to guard the vehicles,
saluted. "Going for a walk, sir?" he asked.

"If you'll lend me a jeep, I'll go for a ride," Hartford said. "I'd
like to see how things look, down in the village."

"It's against regulations, but if you'll have the truck back by dark I
can let it go, sir."

"Thank you, Sergeant." Hartford returned the salute and drove off
downhill, toward Kansannamura.

What would happen to Hartford-the-deserter? he wondered. At best, he'd
be booted out of the troopers and grounded on Titan, or Luna or one of
the M'Bwene planets, to serve the rest of his life as a paper-pusher,
the bureaucratic equivalent of an endless Kitchen Police. At worst,
he'd be exiled to Earth.

That meant exposure to bacteria, a gradual contamination till he'd been
exposed to the full dirtiness in which earthlings daily lived, till
he'd equipped himself with antibodies and a Stinker's immune-response.

The Service Police would be after him soon. Once out of sight of the
Barracks, he turned his jeep off the road, onto one of the numberless
paths used by camelopard riders on their trips between Stinker
villages. He was headed upgrade, now, toward the mountains. On either
side of the jeep were the fields of sunflowers, silent in the twilight
calm. In a few moments the cool winds from the sea would flow into the
land, stirring the billions of heart-shaped sunflower-leaves into the
whisper that filled the evening and early-morning hours of Kansas.

His heart filled with hope and hopelessness, feeling like a happy
suicide, Hartford sang to himself as the sunflower heads and leaves
tattooed against his windshield. _Pioneers! O Pioneers_ he sang, the
anthem of the Axenites, the fellowship he was leaving forever:

    Lo, the darting bowling orb!
    Lo, the brother orbs around, all the clustering suns and planets,
    All the dazzling days, all the mystic nights with dreams, Pioneers!
      O pioneers!

The crunching of the jeep over the narrow track, the whipping of the
plants against the vehicle and his singing all combined to drown out
whatever noise it was the girl might have made. Hartford didn't see her
till the jeep, rearing like a startled pony, climbing the flank of the
camelopard the girl rode, tossed him into a tangle of green stalks and
golden flowers.


                                  VII

The riding camelopard bleated only a moment and was dead, its great
neck broken by the jeep's charge. The girl, thrown clear, was up before
Hartford.

A scarlet bird circled the scene of the wreck, the dead beast, the
stalled jeep, the man and the woman sprawled by the side of the path.
"_Miyo! Miyo! Miyo!_" cried the blabrigar: "See! See! See!"

Hartford rose and went to the girl, who was rubbing the shoulder she'd
landed on. She stared, but didn't back away. "_Kinodoku semban_,"
he said very carefully: _a thousand-myriad pardons_. His bitcher,
unfortunately, was set on full volume; his words of comfort blatted at
the girl with parade-ground force. She put her hands over her ears.

The blabrigar above them, impressed by Hartford's stentorian voice,
circled repeating "_Kinodoku semban_" over and over, till the girl
called it down to rest quietly on her shoulder. The girl spoke to the
bird, which stared at her lips with his head cocked to one side, an
attentive student. She repeated four times the same message. The bird
nodded, and repeated the phrase to her. "Yuke!" the girl said. The
blabrigar spread its scarlet wings and flew up. It circled twice, then
headed north, up into the mountains. Of the girl's message Hartford had
understood only the native word for camelopard: _giraffu_. His Kansan
was inadequate. He could understand it only if it were slowly spoken.

Hartford tongued his bitcher's controls to a conversational level.
"_Kinodoku semban_," he repeated, bowing.

The girl knelt beside the dead camelopard and stroked its head, over
the central, vestigal horn. She looked up at Hartford with tears in her
eyes. "_Tonshu_," Hartford said: I bow my head.

"_Anata we dare desu ka?_" she asked.

"Lee Hartford," he replied.

The girl spoke slowly. "I am named Take." She knit her hands before her
and bowed. "Forgive my bad actions," she said.

"The fault is entirely mine, Takeko," Hartford replied. He was sorry,
of course, to have killed the girl's steed and to have subjected her to
danger; he was very glad to have met her. Takeko wore what must have
been the Kansan riding costume: short trousers and a jacket woven of
floss from retted sunflower stalk, dyed a golden brown. Most curious,
he thought, was her perfume; mild, flowerlike, slightly pungent. The
smell of this lovely Stinker belied the trooper epithet.

Then it hit him.

The filters of a safety-suit remove, together with all the dust
of the ambient air, all its character, including odor. The clean,
characteristic smells of the Barracks, together with the bland
spit-and-sweat odors of a long-worn safety-suit, were all an Axenite
came in contact with.

If he were able to smell the outside world, it could only be because
his gnotobiotic security was compromised.

Hartford inspected his safety-suit, peering where he could and twisting
and feeling the surfaces he couldn't see. Takeko laughed. She reached
across his shoulder and lifted a flap of torn fabric, ripped loose when
Hartford had flown from his jeep.

       *       *       *       *       *

His panic would have been unmanly in a normal human; but Hartford all
his life had been impressed with the horror of contamination. He ran
blindly, though he knew that his deepened breathing was drawing the
germ-laden air of Kansas deeper into his lungs. He ran through lanes of
sunflowers, flailing his arms, into the darkness, away from the alien
girl, away from the fear of going septic. He ran and stumbled and fell
and ran again. All his life he'd been warned of the consequences of
becoming infected with the bacteria against which he had no defenses.
Now he was so infected.

When Hartford fell the last time it was for sheer lack of wind.

He opened his helmet and tossed it aside. Dead already, he could lose
nothing by making himself comfortable for dying. He shivered. The chill
of infection? No, the night was cool. He looked about him in the light
of the sky of stars. The fields were below him, rustling in a million
private conversations as the breeze filtered through them. It was a
lovely place to die, here on the crest of a hill.

Hartford lay back and stared into the curtain of stars that rippled
above him. Perhaps he wouldn't wake, he thought. With this thought he
slept.

The sunlight stung his eyes. He sprang to his feet, then bent and
groaned. Sore. He'd slept on naked soil, packed hard by the hillcrest
winds. He stretched his hard-bedded muscles. For a dead man, he felt
good. The alien bacteria and viruses within him were establishing
beachheads, multiplying their platoons to companies, their companies to
battalions. By the time they'd reached division-strength, he thought,
he'd be well aware of the invasion.

Meanwhile, breakfast.

He opened a package of field-rations, squeeze-tube beans. He inserted
the nozzle of the tube into his mouth and fed himself a dollop of
the stuff. It felt strange to eat directly from the tube, not having
inserted the adjutage into his helmet-opening to be sterilized first.
Being septic saved a lot of time.

He finished the squeeze-tube beans and was thirsty. Down at the base
of his hill was a little stream. Hartford thoughtfully peeled off
his safety-suit. Dressed only in his shorts, shirtless, barefoot and
tender, he made his way down to the water.

It was delicious.

Did bacteria impart that brisk taste? Hartford wondered. So far
committed to contamination that nothing mattered, he shed his shorts
and dived into the stream. It was chilly, delightful. He returned to
shore and lay on the grass for the sun to toast him dry. He began to
relax.... The girl giggled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hartford snatched up his shorts and pulled them on. It was Takeko. She
was afoot, wearing the costume he'd last seen her with; but she had
strapped on her back a leather wallet. A blabrigar sat on Takeko's
shoulder. She spoke to it, repeating her message four times and
listening to the bird repeat once. Then she shooed the scarlet bird
away, to carry north the message that Hartford had been found.

"I laugh. Excuse me," she said. "But you funny." Takeko patted her
head. Hartford understood. Shaved by the Decontamination Squad, he was
bald and eyebrowless, entirely lacking in body hair. He smiled. "_Hai._"

"Your skin is like the hide of a _giraffu_," she said.

Hartford looked down at his freckled arm. True, the pattern of brown
against pink was very like the reticulations of a camelopard. "Where
did you learn to speak Standard, Takeko?"

"Pia-san talked to my cousin, and I listened," she said. "Kansannamura
was my home. Pia often visited us." Hartford, who after Nasty Nef was
the man most responsible for the burning of Takeko's village, was
silent. "When your _jeepu-kuruma_ hit my _giraffu_, I think you are
Renkei," the Kansan girl said. "Renkei is my cousin. He go to see what
can be done."

"Renkei is dead," Hartford told her.

"_Iie!_" Takeko pressed her hands against her face. "You strangers are
quick to kill, to burn, to sweep away."

"I did not wish him harmed," Hartford said.

"You pink folk will not be happy until all our people are dead and
under the ground," Takeko moaned. "You will not be pleased until you
can march across our graves."

"That is not so."

"Pia-san said it," Takeko said. "He said that your Nef is a master of
the Brotherhood, which wishes death to all people who do not wear glass
heads."

"If that is true, I am no longer a part of it, Takeko-san," Hartford
said. "I have left Nef and his Barracks. I am a dead man."

"You will come with me," Takeko said. "You will not be dead for many
years, unless Nef and his Brotherhood kill you." She looked into the
sky, where a red bird was circling. It hawked down to her shoulder and
sat there, its head tilted to her. "Takeko," the girl said to the bird.
With this key to unlock its message the blabrigar spilled its rote.
Hartford recognized a word or two of the bird-o-gram, but not the full
sense of the message.

Takeko reached into the pocket of her short trousers for a few
zebra-striped sunflower-seeds. The blabrigar picked these daintily
from her hand, using its beak like a pair of precise tweezers, pinching
up one seed at a time and cracking it. "There will soon come _giraffu_
to take us to a further village," Takeko said. "You are to speak to
our chief men there, to tell them what happened to Renkei, why he was
killed in the Stone House."

"I may not live through this day," Hartford said. "It is not easy to
explain. We wear the 'glass head' to keep out your air. It is deadly,
_doku_, to us. Do you understand, Takeko?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"You may be tired, having slept on the old bones of the hill," she
said. "You may be hungry, having eaten only the squeezings of your
metal sausages. But you are not hurt badly, nor are you old, Lee-san.
Why should you die?"

"You cannot understand," Hartford said. He spoke more to himself than
to the girl. "The medicine here is certainly primitive. You have no
concept of the biological nature of disease. Tell me, Takeko-san, do
you Kansans know anything of the very, very small...."

"Microscopic?" Takeko asked.

"Piacentelli did a splendid job of teaching you the Standard
language," Hartford said. He looked up and down Takeko's trim, just
post-adolescent figure in frank appraisal, jealously wondering whether
Gabe could have achieved his remarkable pedagogical results by means
of the pillow-book method of linguistic instruction so popular with
soldiers of occupation in every time and climate. That thought, he
rebuked himself, was unworthy of Pia's memory. In any case, his friend
had conducted his researches wearing that guarantee of chastity, a
safety-suit.

"We'll have to wait an hour or so until the _giraffu_ come," Takeko
said.

She unstrapped the wallet from her back and unpacked it on the grass
at the edge of the little stream. The Kansan girl took out a coil of
line, spun from the stalk of the sunflower, and a bronze hook. "We will
feed the gentleman from the Stone House," she said. Hartford watched
with amusement as she baited the hook with a bit of the bread from
her knapsack, twirled the line about her head and dropped it into the
center of the stream. "This place has many fish," she said. "We will
not wait long before we eat."

It took Takeko only ten minutes to have three seven-inch fish, so plump
and meaty-looking that not even a xenologist would have wasted time
studying them, lying on the grass.

Hartford demanded equal time with the fishline, and discovered to
his gratification that the dough he pinched off the chapattis and
molded to the hook took the fancy of Kansas fish as well as Takeko's
offerings. With a sense of at last participating in the affairs of the
universe, he de-capitated and decaudated the six fish they ended with,
and gutted them with a rich delight in the juicy messiness of the task.

Hartford and Takeko scissored the fillets in split twigs and roasted
them, like aquatic weenies, over a fire built from the pithy stalks
of dead sunflowers. The firepit, a saucer of scooped-out dirt, had
buried beneath it half a dozen of the swollen roots of sunflowers, each
wrapped in the cordiform, sharkskin-surfaced leaf of the parent plant,
to roast beneath the coals.

       *       *       *       *       *

They seasoned their fish with _daikon_, a kind of horseradish; and
their plates were the fresh-baked, flat, un-leavened chappattis Takeko
had brought in her pack. The tubers, eaten from a fresh leaf-plate,
needed only butter. Takeko had this, too, churned of camelopard-milk
cream. Buds or flower-heads of the sunflower were eaten with sunflower
oil, like artichokes. "Your people have a good friend in the
sunflower;" Hartford remarked, wiping his lips.

"With the golden flower and the golden _giraffu_, with the _take_-grass
and the good soil, we had a rich life here before you glass-headed
men came," Takeko said. "Now we are treated in our own villages like
rats to be driven out, in our fields as gnawing vermin. Why is your
Brotherhood so angry with us, Lee-san, who live in only a few places on
a wide world? Is there no law among the light-skinned people? We have
lived here, on the world you call Kansas, for many generations. We were
once of Earth, as were your grandfathers."

"All humans were once of Earth," Hartford said.

"If we are as much human as you," she said, "why does your Nef call us
_Hominids_? Is that a name to give a brother?"

"It is better than _Stinker_," Hartford suggested.

"_Hai!_ I tell you, Lee-san why you must re-name us. It is because men
do not kill men until they give their brother-enemy a monstrous name.
Why do you wish to kill us all?" she asked.

"I'm not a member of the Brotherhood," Hartford said. "I'm only a man
who was born on Axenite. That means, until your beast and my jeep
collided, tearing my safety-suit, I was an animal uncontaminated by
microscopic life. These microscopic animals, Takeko, are deadly to an
Axenite."

"You are not dead, though," Takeko suggested. "_Ne?_"

"I've been breathing contaminated air for twelve hours," Hartford said.
"It's true. I cannot understand why I have no fever, no malaise, no
symptoms of pneumonia."

Takeko giggled. "Forgive me," she said. "_Kinodoku semban_; but you
seem to be sorry to be alive." She was silent for a moment, listening.
She pointed north. "My father will appear with our _giraffu_ soon," she
said. "I can hear them."

Takeko's father rode up a moment later, an unbent man of seventy. He
sat astride his camelopard, a comic quadruped little better designed as
a beast of burden than an ostrich, with as much dignity as though his
steed were an Arabian stallion. His name, Takeko said, was Kiwa-san.
The old man bowed from his saddle when his daughter introduced Hartford.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Kiwa-san's command the two _giraffu_ he'd brought along on
lead-reins spread their legs to bring their down-sloping backs a scant
four feet from the ground. The saddles, with dangling, boot-like
gambadoes in place of ordinary stirrups, seemed inaccessible to
Hartford. "Watch me," Takeko told him. She took a short run up behind
her _giraffu_ and, with a movement like a leap-frog hurdle, flipped
herself up into the saddle.

Hartford stepped back, ran and leaped. He succeeded only in banging
his shoes into the right sifle-joint of his mount and in flipping
himself to the ground. In the interest of haste, grace was abandoned.
Hartford monkey-crawled up a sturdy cane of bamboo growing nearby and,
as Kiwa-san maneuvered his beast, stepped over into the saddle.

"I'd better take my safety-suit and helmet," he said. "If the troopers
should find it, they could follow our trail."

"_Hai!_" Takeko said, agreeing. She leaped from her _giraffu_, packed
the safety-suit and helmet onto the beast, and remounted. "We will
now go to Yamamura," she said. Old Kiwa spoke, and she translated:
"We must move quickly and with care," she said. "My father heard an
_hikoki_--how do you say?" she asked, raising and lowering her hand.

"A veeto-platform," Hartford said. "I mustn't be seen, Takeko. Colonel
Nef would use my presence as an excuse to kill any of your people
around me."

The ride, though cautious, was indeed demanding. Hartford felt tendons
stretch he didn't know he had. Muscles were bruised from his instep to
his upper back, and the skin was chafed away from his inner thighs as
though he'd been riding an unplaned plank. He understood, well before
the journey to the mountain village was over, the importance of that
lifetime exercise, best begun by riding young, known to generations
of horsemen as "stretching the crutch." He swore to himself that his
future transportation, if he had a future through which to transport
himself, would be by boots or wheeled vehicle.

The three of them were following no clear path. Kiwa led. Hartford
noted that their course took them along the contours of streams, on the
borders of fields, through contrasting background that would make their
presence less obvious from the air.

They were in a thicket of bamboo when the veeto-platform did appear.

The instant they heard its whistle, Kiwa spoke a sharp word. He and
his daughter slipped from their mounts, loosed the brow-bands of
their camelopards and unlocked their girths, tossed off the saddles
and dangling gambadoes and gave the animals each a sharp slap on the
rump that sent them crashing through the bamboo. They helped Hartford
unsaddle and send his beast off in another direction, and lay down in
the direction the late-morning sun dialed the shadows of the bamboo
stems.

If the veeto-pilot saw the _giraffu_ now, they were saddleless and
innocent.

The downdraft of the veeto-platform puffed dust up from the ground
around them, and pressed down the leafy tops of the bamboo like a great
hand stroking across the thicket. Hartford, aware of the way his bald
head and pink face would stand out, dusted his hands with the soil and
laced his dusty fingers over his scalp.

The platform passed almost directly over them, shooting fragments of
dust and bamboo-duff into every particle of clothing, into ears and
eyes and nostrils, with the whirl-wind of its passage.


                                 VIII

It took them half an hour to recover their _giraffu_ and saddle up
again, but Hartford did not regret the delay.

Aboard the grotesque mount again, he groaned. To mask the misery of his
unaccustomed pounding he paid scientific attention to the landscape,
the gait of the camelopards, the leather of the saddles, and the
posture and person of Takeko--this last by far the most effective of
his analgesic thoughts.

They rode on an ancient piedmont, among the foothills of a worn-down
mountain-range. The leather of their saddles and gambadoes was, by its
pattern, obviously tanned camelopard-hide. Hartford was certain that
this pattern would by the end of their journey be an indelible part of
his own hide. The _giraffu_, remarkably swift and easy-moving over the
rugged, heavily grown terrain, ambled, moving both legs on the same
side together. And Takeko was lovely.

Hartford decided to essay his Kansan. He practiced his question: "Is
Yamamura far from here?" mentally, moving his lips, until he was sure
he'd mastered the phrasing. Then he addressed Old Kiwa. "_Yamamura wa
koko kara toi desu ka?_"

Kiwa smiled, and rattled off an answer much too brisk for Hartford to
catch. He pointed ahead and up. "He says we must go through the pass,
under the Great Buddha," Takeko explained. "We have only an hour to go."

"_Arigato_," Hartford said, suppressing a moan. Another hour!

The pass Kiwa had spoken of loomed ahead. It was quite narrow, and
walled on either side by the almost perpendicular flanks of mountains,
shoulder to shoulder. Kiwa went first, for the cleft could only be
negotiated in single file. Takeko followed her father, and Hartford
took up the rear. In the ravine it was dark. The camelopards, sensing
their mangers up ahead, paced more quickly. Suddenly the canyon was
light, the walls spreading further apart here.

Far up on Hartford's right, seated on a shelf left from some ancient
avalanche, was a gigantic figure cast of a coppery metal, green now
against the granite wall. "Who is that?" Hartford called to Takeko.

"It is our _Daibutsu_," Takeko said. "It is the _Amida Buddha_, the
Lord of Boundless Light."

"Do you worship him?"

Takeko smiled and shook her head. "We worship not any man, but a Way,"
she said. "_Butsudo_--the Way of the Buddha. We are nearly to the
village now, Lee-san."

"I thank the Lord Buddha for that," Hartford said, bowing from his
saddle toward the great bronze image.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yamamura nestled in a fold of the high mountains. The fields that
supported the village, its population now doubled by the refugees from
Kansannamura, were tucked here and there on narrow ledges, watered by
bamboo flumes that stole water from the mountain streams. The crop of
greatest importance was the ubiquitous sunflower, supplier of bread and
soap ash, of cloth and bath oil, birdseed and writing paper. Bamboo
grew in clefts and shelves too slight for cultivation. This was the
wood for tools, the water pipe, the house wattles and, in its youth,
the salad of the people, the only wood eaten in its native state. There
were also carrots, beets and tiny plum-trees, and the horseradish,
_daikon_. Yamamura was a lovely place, Hartford decided.

It was twenty hours from the moment of his contamination that Hartford
dismounted. He moved into the house Kiwa invited him to with as much
tenderness as though he'd been carefully bastinadoed and flayed. He
was, nonetheless, free of febrile symptoms. He had breathed Kansan
air, had eaten its fish and drunk its water; he'd spoken with a Kansan
native and had lain with his face in Kansan dust. He was still as
healthy as any Axenite, never before in the saddle, would be after a
five-hour ride.

Kiwa's wife and Takeko's mother was a little woman named Toyomi-san,
dressed in brightly patterned garments a good deal more formal than her
daughter's jacket and shorts. Toyomi-san spoke no Standard, but she
made quite clear to Hartford his welcome. She led him into a large,
steam-filled room, where she indicated he was first to wash himself
then soak, then dry and dress in the clean clothing she'd laid out for
his use.

The soaking water was very hot, and very welcome. Hartford sat in the
copper-bottomed tub, his muscles hard and sore, until he felt the very
marrow of his bones had cooked. He stepped from the tub then and dried
gently, easy on his chafed back and legs.

"The oil will help," Takeko said, slipping a screen shut behind her.
She had bathed and brushed her black hair free of the bamboo-thicket
dust, and wore now a brilliant, silk _kimono_ of the sort her mother
was wearing.

Hartford held the towel at his waist.

"Excuse me," he said.

Takeko giggled. "Are you unique, Lee-san, that you must hide yourself?
Lie down on the cot, and I will make you comfortable."

Wondering greatly at the folkways of Kansas, but determined to commit
no gaffe that would imperil his relations with this girl, Hartford
lay face down on the mat-covered cot. Takeko removed the _tenugi_
towel with which he'd modestly draped himself and gently stroked
sweet-scented sunflower-seed oil into his macerated skin. Using the
radical border of her hands, which were remarkably strong, Takeko
coaxed the muscles to relax with effleurage; and she further softened
the clonic hardness with a kneading motion. "This is," she said,
working her thumb-knuckles up his spinal-column as though telling the
beads of his vertebrae, "one of the good things my ancestors brought
from earth."

"_Yoroshiku soro_," Hartford grunted agreement. "It is good."

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later, his skin soothed with oil and his muscles suppled
by Takeko's massage, Hartford joined the family for supper. The Kansans
used paired sticks for eating. Hartford, who'd not yet been introduced
to the skill of using these _o-hashi_, and who was too hungry to
practice now, was given a metal spoon with which to eat.

When they'd finished their meal, several elder Kansans entered
Kiwa-san's house. Each bowed to Hartford, who, bald-headed, his feet
socked into unfamiliar _geta_ and wearing mitten-toed stockings, bowed
in return. The newcomers each spoke some Standard, but it was obvious
that Takeko was the most fluent of them all. "Pia-san taught Renkei;
Renkei taught me," the girl explained. "I was the second-best speaker.
It would be better if Renkei were here."

"I regret his death more deeply than I can tell you," Hartford said.
"Renkei and Pia my friend are both dead now. This is what Renkei told
me: _aru-majiki koto_, a thing that ought not to be."

The Kansans, seated on the cushions about the room, nodded. "Do you
know, Lee-san, the greatest law of life?" Takeko asked.

"You said, beside the stream where we fished, that men do not kill
men," Hartford answered. "But they do."

"It is an ideal we have more nearly than the glass-heads," one of
the Kansan elders said. "In the past four days, Renkei has died, and
Pia-san. In the years before you Latecomers came to build the Stone
House and cut roads and practice making holes in paper at a distance,
no man died here at the hand of another."

"We cannot teach the glass-heads our way when they walk about only
with guns, when they live in the Stone House none of us can enter
without dying, when they look at us with glass bowls over their faces
and hate in their hearts," Takeko said.

"The hate is hardly needful," Hartford said. "But the helmets must
remain if Axenites are to live on Kansas."

"Do you live?" Takeko asked quietly.

"I do," Hartford said. "It puzzles me."

"Does it not puzzle you that none of us harbors open sores, or coughs
up phlegm, or dies of fever?" Kiwa asked, speaking through his
daughter's intermediation.

"I had not thought of that," Hartford admitted. "I have never before
lived so close to Stinkers." Embarrassed, he stopped short. "I'm
sorry," he said. "_Shitsurei shimashita_."

"You meant us no discourtesy," Takeko said. "Think, Lee, of the word
you used. Do we indeed stink?"

"No," Hartford said. "It's strange. I've been told all my life of the
rot and fermentation within ordinary mammals, and of the evil smells
elaborated by these processes. But you, and all of Kansas, stink no
more than Axenites do. You have, as we, the mulberry odor of saliva,
the wheat smell of thiamin, the faint musk oil of the hair. Even your
camelopards smell sweet."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl laughed. "If you think all Kansas a place of sweet perfumes,
smell this, Lee-san," she said. She took a covered dish and opened it.
"This is _takuwan_," she said. A smell strong as that of limburger
cheese made itself known in the room. "It is pickled turnip, made in
the old manner of our island forefathers on Earth."

"Whew!" Hartford said. "There is the true Stinker of Kansas."

"Pia-san learned much from the bad-smelling _takuwan_," Takeko said.
"His wife knew about the small stink-makers, these bacteria; she was
a user of microscopes. She looked for them in the air of Kansas, and
in our soil. Pia-san went even further. He took drops of our blood and
other things to test."

"Tell our guest, Take-chan, what Pia found," Old Kiwa told his daughter.

"_Hai, Otosan._" The girl turned to Hartford. "In our bodies there are
no mischief-makers of the sort Earth-people know. There are not even
those juices Pia-san called 'footprints of the bugs.'"

"He must have meant you have no bacterial antibodies," Hartford said.
"That explains the whole package," he went on, with growing excitement.
"Why I'm alive without my safety-suit. What Piacentelli went outside
to find. And, when he found it, why he unsuited himself, knowing
this world as pure as Titan. You're Axenites, you Kansans! You're as
germ-free as the troopers."

"The whole truth is less simple," said the lean old man who'd been
introduced to Hartford as Yamata, the calligrapher.

"Does the rubble of your forest-floors never turn to mould, then?"
Hartford asked. "Do the bodies of your buried fathers lie uncorrupted
in their graves?"

"Of course not," Takeko said. "If that happened, we would be buried
ourselves in unmouldered leaves. The bodies of our ancestors would be
stacked about us, unchanging, like logs for the charcoal-burners. Our
soil would die, and all men would die with it, if dead things did not
crumble to make new soil."

"Show our friend the hero of our epic," the calligrapher told her.

"_Hai._" Takeko stood and went to another room, going through the
ritual of kneeling to slide the door screen, standing, kneeling,
standing, with a grace that made the kimono she wore the loveliest of
garments. She brought to the small table at the center of the room a
heavy object wrapped in a yellow silk _tenugui_. Near this on the table
she placed a small lamp, fueled with sunflower-seed oil. She lighted
the lamp and uncovered the instrument she'd brought in.

It was the microscope Piacentelli had taken from the Barracks on his
fatal expedition.

Takeko dipped a chopstick into a dish and placed it beneath the
objective of the microscope. "We shall look at a spot of evil-smelling
_takuwan_-juice," she said. "There is light enough. Make it fit your
eyes, Lee-san; and you will know the secret of Jodo, this world you
call Kansas."


                                  IX

Hartford knelt over the microscope in the yoga-posture called for by
its being so near the floor and tried to adjust the instrument as he
remembered having seen it done. He focused the coarse adjustment of
the 'scope till he saw spots darting about the fluid Takeko had placed
on the slide. He nailed the spots down with a gentle hand on the fine
adjustment.

The juice of the pickled turnip was aswim with tiny bodies that looked
like tadpoles. "What are they?" he asked, peering into the micro-world
below him.

"Pia-san named them monads," said the carpenter, white-bearded Togo.
"We all have them in our bodies. You have them now in yours. Our soil
is alive with them. They chew the chaff of our fields into black loam;
they turn to dust the flesh of our fathers. They cause turnips to
become _takuwan_."

Hartford rocked back from the microscope to sit again on his heels.
"You have no disease, no benign bacterial flora and of course no
bacterial antibodies. Instead you have this whip-tailed animalcule,
this monad. Is this correct?"

"So Pia-san said," Takeko agreed. "He said that the monad is a
jealous beast. It is a tiger among the pygmies, he said. No little
nuisance-makers can exist on Kansas; the monad would eat them in a
rage."

"The ultimate antibiotic," Hartford said. "A micro-organism that
functions as a saprophyte, a soil-former and a scavenger. Besides all
this, it's a universal phagocyte, policing up the human environment
inside and out, to keep it clean of any other microscopic organisms.
The monad fills every niche in the micro-ecology of the planet."

"This is what Pia-san and his _okusama_, poor dead girl, discovered,"
Takeko said. "Renkei entered the Stone House to tell you that we do
not stink, that we are not dangerous. Three people have died to tell
this--and Nef still does not know."

"I think he may know it after all," Hartford said. "He knows about the
monad, and fears it. This little bug means that every member of the
human race can join his damned Brotherhood. A crew of monads in his gut
would make every man on Stinker Earth a dignotobiote, germ-free except
for his housekeeping protozoa."

"Until Pia-san told us," Yamata said, "we knew nothing except that we
lived longer than our ancestors had. We knew that we did not suffer
from the strange tirednesses the books told of, ills caused by the
little animals. We did not know that the smallest natives of this
planet had made of us their fortresses."

"If I could only get past Nasty Nef to tell this to the Axenites,"
Hartford said.

"_Ron yori shoko_," Kiwa-san said. Takeko translated for her father.
"He says, Proof is stronger than argument."

"Indeed," Hartford agreed. "But how do I prove to the troopers that the
monad sweeps Kansas cleaner than their Barracks floors?"

"As Pia-san tried to," Takeko said. "He removed his glasshead and his
silken suit. He breathed our air and ate our food. He wanted to prove
that he could live, but he was killed before he could. Now you have
made that proof. Your brothers of the Stone House must undress of their
silken suits and come among us, Lee-san."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That they will not," Hartford said. "They are certain they will die if
they inhale a breath of Kansas air, chew a bite of Kansas food, drink
your clear stream water. I was certain I would die when my safety-suit
was torn: remember our meeting, Takeko-san? It will not be easy to
persuade my brothers and sisters in the Barracks to forget their fears.
We are so sure, we Axenites, that contamination will kill us that
we'd rather dance with lightning and eat stones than walk this world
unprotected and eat its fruits."

When Takeko had respoken these words to her father, the old man said
again: "_Ron yori shoko_." Proof is greater than argument.

"Proof?" Hartford asked. "I am not proof enough to have a Regiment
of Axenites shed their safety-suits and declare the Kansans their
brothers. It would take years of lab work before the first of them
would walk suitless onto bug-dirt. We'd have to knock down the walls of
the Barracks and burn two thousand-odd safety-suits, before we'd have
the Axenite troopers here trapped into being guinea-pigs."

"Each trooper carries the Stone House with him when he walks our
roads," the calligrapher remarked. "We have but to break through the
silken suit he wears to make a trooper know the garment isn't needed
here."

"He'd die of fright," Hartford said. "I very nearly did. Besides,
each column of troopers, a squad or the Regiment, goes out with a
Decontamination Team. If a man becomes septic through some sort of
accident, he's hustled by a cleanup squad into a Decontamination
Vehicle for his shower, shave and shots. I know the process well," he
said, running his palm over his naked head.

"_Ano ne_," Kiwa said. "Will this Decontamination-_kuruma_ house two
thousand men? Two hundred? Twenty?"

"It will hold two or three troopers at once," Hartford answered. "We
have several of them, though."

"_So ... ka?_" white-bearded Togo exclaimed. He leaned over to whisper
into the ear of Takeko's father, who nodded and smiled.

Old Kiwa spoke, and Takeko interpreted. "We must surprise a group of
troopers," he said. "We must cause all their silken suits to be torn,
or all their glass heads shattered, at one time. It is so simple as
that."

"Simple in all but the doing," said Yamata the calligrapher. He
picked up a brush and sketched on the mat before him a line of
trooper-silhouettes, a platoon, marching single-file. "How do we break
into all those Stone Houses at once?" he asked.

Hartford's face was pale. "We could use grenades, perhaps," he said.
"Or bombs. After all, these troopers we speak of are no more than my
family, my village, my people. I may of course be expected to cooperate
in their destruction."

       *       *       *       *       *

Takeko reached over and took his hand, then dropped it. "_Ano ne!_
You do not understand! We can no more injure your brothers than you
can, Lee-san. We may not harm any living person. Forgive us. You
misunderstand us. We are bound, Lee-sensei, by _Butsudo_: the Peaceful
Path of the Lord Buddha." She bowed toward him, her hands clasped
together, her head touching the _tatami_.

"It is my fault if I have misunderstood," Hartford said. The men were
staring, Takeko's eyes were filled with tears, the room was silent. "I
do not know you well. I did not know you do not kill."

"Let me tell you, then," Takeko said, rising to sit beside him. "Our
people, who once lived on islands in the greater sea of Earth, were
folk mighty in battle. Their pride was named the Way of the Warrior,
which is called _Bushido_. Their loveliest flower, the _sakura_ or
cherry-blossom, they made the symbol of the warrior, so highly did they
hold his calling.

"After their villages had been crushed many times in war, our ancestors
vowed forever to abandon _Bushido_, the warrior's path, and to place
their feet in the path of the Lord Buddha, called _Butsudo_. This was
many years ago, before any man had ventured into space, before our
ancestors found this world you call Kansas. When they came here, they
came in peace. And they named this place _Jodo_, which we still call
it. It means the Pure Land, where men are just. And all justice is
built on a single law. No man shall take man's life."

"I spoke of the Axenite Brotherhood," Hartford said. "These men are
a group of our leaders--Colonel Nef is one; he invited me to join
him--who have decided that Stinker humanity must go. They're dedicated
men, prepared to extinguish all the rest of mankind, to sterilize Earth
and reseed it as a gnotobiotopic Paradise. Nef has, I fear, already
killed three people to this end.

"You who cannot kill will face an enemy trained in killing," he went
on. "Your camelopard-mounted messengers will meet veeto-platforms with
machine-guns. Your peaceful words will be drowned out by the roar of
Dardick-rifles. How can you hope to live if you will not kill?"

"If the choice were death or killing, Lee-san, we would gladly die,"
Takeko said. "We have a saying, _Muriga toreba dori ga hikkomu_. When
might takes charge justice withdraws. We will not kill, and neither
will we be defeated."

Yamata the calligrapher addressed Hartford. "How badly torn must
a safety-suit be, to make necessary the wearer's going into the
purification cart?" he asked.

"Only so much as the point of a pin would make would be enough,"
Hartford said.

"We have to drive pins into several dozens of men's clothing at one
time," Yamata said. He smiled. "So phrased, the mountain does not seem
too tall to be climbed."

"It would be difficult to puncture the safety-suits without hurting the
wearers," Hartford said. "Few armies are so solicitous."

"_Butsudo_ forbids us to kill men," Takeko said. "It does not deny us
the right, in pointing them to the path of knowledge, to jab them a
bit." She smiled at Hartford.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How do you propose to do this jabbing?" he asked. "I remind you all,
if you need reminding, that our troopers travel with Dardick-rifles and
machine-guns, with rocket-mounted jeeps and veeto-platforms from which
bombs can be dropped."

Kiwa spoke. "We are like a bear after honey," he said. "We are hungry,
but do not wish to taste the stings of the guardians of the hive. We
must surprise them."

Hartford, his knees stiff with kneeling, his backside sore from the
camelopard-saddle despite the expert massage, got up to pace the floor.
"We need a needle-gun of some sort," he said.

"No gun," insisted white-bearded Togo.

"It need have only slight power," Hartford said. "It would throw
its projectile only forcefully enough to penetrate the fabric of a
safety-suit."

"It has been so many generations since we have been soldiers, we know
nothing of weapons," Yamata-san said. He wet a fine brush with _sumi_,
Chinese ink, and sketched rapidly. "I remember seeing pictures of
_Bushi_ carrying a sort of throwing-sticks with pointed ends in pockets
on their backs, and flinging them like little spears with a kind of
one-stringed lute."

Hartford stared at the calligrapher's drawing, then exclaimed. "Of
course! A bow and arrow."

Takeko inspected the sketch. "The man who threw the stick is standing,"
she said. "Could we stand against troopers?"

"A man would have to stand exposed to shoot an arrow," Hartford
admitted. "The Dardick-guns would mow us down before we'd punctured a
single safety-suit." He paced up and down the room, the only trained
warrior there, trying to devise his unkilling weapon.

"We have wine, Lee-san," Takeko said. "Please sit and drink."

Hartford, bemused with his problem, folded his legs onto his cushion
and lowered himself gently. Takeko's mother appeared with tiny cups of
hot wine, _sake_. Hartford bowed with the others and sipped. The stuff
was good, rather like a dry sherry.

Takeko bowed to leave the room, returned, bowed and commenced playing
a tune with the instrument she'd brought in. It was a flute made of
bamboo, with a high-pitched, pure sound Hartford found quite pleasant.
He frowned, though, after a moment. Takeko took the pipe from her lips.
"You do not enjoy my playing?" she asked.

"What is that made of?" Hartford demanded. "Just bamboo, isn't it?"

"_Hai, take_," Takeko agreed. "It is my name. _Take_--bamboo. This is
only a _shakuha-chi_, for very simple music."

Hartford smiled and bowed toward Togo-san, the white-bearded carpenter.
"Sir," he said, "if we may have your advice, I believe Takeko-chan has
helped us find our weapon."


                                   X

The meeting broke up to adjourn to Togo-san's workshop. There was
bamboo there in plenty, and young men eager to help the ex-lieutenant
of Axenites in testing his device. As the week wore on, young Kansans
appeared from other villages, called by blabrigars and messengers on
camelopard-back to join the army that was to make brothers and sisters
of the troopers of First Regiment.

The blowgun Hartford finally established as his field model was some
two yards long, made of bamboo bored through the joints and polished
smooth within, of a caliber somewhat less than the diameter of a man's
little finger. Though the bamboo-tube was somewhat flexible, Togo-san
and his apprentices were able to bind a front sight to the muzzle,
allowing somewhat greater accuracy that could be obtained by pointing
and hoping.

The dart was about the length of a man's hand. Its point was a sliver
of bamboo, sharp as steel, entirely sharp enough to penetrate the tough
material of a safety-suit if puffed from the blowgun with enough force.

All the craftsmen of the village became arms-makers. They drilled
bamboo, polished the bore with abrasive-coated cord, fitted on the
sights and tested their blowguns against the targets. Hundreds of darts
were turned out for practice, and the most perfect were saved for the
battlefield itself. The blowgunners began their drill, shooting from
a prone position at targets as far as ten yards off, as great a range
as amateurs could be expected to shoot with accuracy in the short time
these had for practice.

To fire the blowgun, the dart was wrapped in a bit of silk of
sunflower-stalk-fluff, so that it would fit tightly into the tube. The
puff that sent it on its way had to be sharp and hard. Achieving the
proper slap of air took more practice even than aiming.

Hartford became every day a better horseman, or rather camelopardist.
He in fact rejoiced in opportunities to leap-frog into his saddle, fit
his feet and legs into the leather gambadoes, and go hailing off into
the hills to recruit men and material. He carried with him the radio
he'd salvaged from his safety-suit, and could from time to time pick up
First Regiment transmissions. The bitcher from his suit was useful in
training large numbers of recruits on the blowgun range, and would be
used when the Kansan guerrillas took the field against the troopers.
He was picking up the language rapidly, now. He had to use Takeko's
services as interpreter less and less. Her usefulness declined not
a bit, though, as the girl became his first lieutenant in charge of
details.

The band of expert puff-gunners was joined by a company of scouts.
These men and women skulked the hills afoot or astride camelopards,
spying out the programs of the Regiment. Having no radio to maintain
contact with Yamamura, each scout carried a pair of blabrigars, trained
to report to a specific person in its home village when given a
selected prompt-word.

Yamata-san, the calligrapher, became a cartographer. He drew in
jet-black _sumi_ ink the contours of the mountains, greened in
the stands of bamboo, drew blue streams and broad brown fields of
sunflowers, till at last the map that filled the largest room in
Yamamura was almost as real as the Kansan soil it reflected. Walking
across this map in his _tabi_-stockinged feet, Hartford and the others
of Kansas Intelligence would move toy troopers, made of wood like
_kokeshi_-dolls, into the positions where the blabrigars reported
patrols to be.

       *       *       *       *       *

The plan of battle of the Kansas forces was _yawara-do_, the Gentle Way
also called _judo_. They would wait till the enemy made a move they
could use, then they'd trip him up by re-directing his own strength.

The move they most wanted the troopers to make was into the ravine that
led toward the village of Yamamura, the pass under the _Daibutsu_, the
huge bronze Buddha set there by their ancestors. In that ravine, under
the gaze of the Lord of Boundless Light, the Kansas forces would either
prevail against the invader and make him their brother by darts and
sweet reason, or they would all die in the attempt.

The camelopards were stabled, ready as the steeds of any
march-patrolling cavalry troop. The dartsmen, and those of the women
who'd shown skill in handling the blowgun, were trained and eager.
The path through the pass had been memorized in infinite detail by
every one of the guerrillas. The squad of sappers responsible for
check-mating the troopers had prepared their levers, their blocks and
skids. Nothing remained now but to coax the enemy into the battlefield
of the Kansans' choosing.

"Take out what's left of the safety-suit," Hartford ordered one of his
men. "Leave it here--" He stabbed a toe at the map they both stood on.

"Would it be well for me to leave beside the torn and broken suit
signs of a fight?" asked the boy, Ito Jiro, son of Old Ito-san, the
knife-maker. "If the troopers are angry, they will be careless."

"If only you believed in war, Jiro-chan, you'd make a fine warrior,"
Hartford grinned. "Do it your way, and hurry back."

Jiro placed the bait under the Regiment's nose early in the day, and
returned to Yamamura. It was midday when a blabrigar flew in from one
of the scouts posted to watch First Regiment's reaction. The bird
prated its message into the ear of its receiver. Troopers, a band
of fifty-odd, were scouring the hills to the west, following the
camelopard-hoofprints left by Jiro. Aiding them in their search was the
Regiment's veeto-platform, skimming, hovering, pouncing to pick up
clues. "They're on the scent," Hartford said. He turned again to Ito
Jiro, fleetest of the camelopard-riders. "Jiro-chan, lead them a chase
that will bring them to the ravine no sooner than the Hour of the Dog.
Be very cautious of the flying-thing; it can surprise you."

"_Hai_," Jiro said, bowing. "The Hour of the Dog they will call upon
you near the _Daibutsu_." Ito-san the knife-maker watched his son
run toward the stables, the boy as excited as though he were going
to a festival rather than to face alone half a company of full-armed
Axenites. The blabrigars that would ride out with Jiro were trained to
report to the father. It would be a long afternoon for the old man,
Hartford thought.

There was much to do before the scarlet bird came winging in from
Jiro's shoulder with the message that the trap was sprung. At the Hour
of the Monkey, four hours before the troopers were to be in ambush,
the first blabrigar flew in to report to Ito-san that the boy's mount
was winded, the enemy was drawing nearer the ravine, and that Jiro
was approaching the point of rendezvous where he would find a fresh
camelopard. Hartford ordered out two youths to join Jiro there in his
harassment of the foot-soldiers from Regiment.

"It is time we take up our positions," he told his band of dartsmen.
"Let us go in hope."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kiwa-san, Takeko's father, stepped forward to pronounce a benediction
upon the little company. "The Enlightened One, speaking at Rajagriha,
spake, saying: 'Remember one thing, O beloved disciples, that hatred
cannot be silenced by lies but by truth.'"

The irregulars, heads bowed, replied, "Namu Amida Butsu," Glory to the
Amida Buddha! Hartford, though his training as an Axenite trooper had
left him as untouched by religions as by microbes, joined the prayer,
feeling that a degree of celestial interest in their stratagem would
not be unwelcome.

The camelopardists vaulted into their saddles, adjusted their legs in
the boot-like gambadoes, and slapped the reins to head their _giraffu_
toward the ravine where the endgame would be played. Hartford rode at
the head of the band, Takeko beside him. The others were dispersed at
wide interval, a precaution against the veeto-platform's swooping over
the horizon to surprise them en route. As they left Yamamura, the women
and children of the village were leaving from the other side, together
with the men too old to go out with the guerrillas. Yamamura was being
abandoned until the outcome of battle made itself known.

The canyon that led up the mountain's groin had once been the deep-cut
bed of a stream. Collapse of over-beetling rock had formed a vault
over the stream, which was consequently underground. Soil had filtered
into the rocks, and bamboo had taken root. In result the lower ravine
was a green enfilade hardly wider than a hallway, the walls on either
side rising squarely from its floor. Well within the pass, set into the
left-hand wall as one rode down from Yamamura, was a niche very like
the _tokonoma_ or honored alcove of a Kansan home. In this alcove, some
fifty feet from the bottom of the pass, was set the great bronze image
of Buddha, the _Daibutsu_ of Kansas.

Further down, below the _Daibutsu_-niche, the canyon became irregular.
Along either side, some ten feet from the floor, were ledges marking
the fracture planes along which ancient avalanches had calved. It was
from these shelves that the Kansans hoped to ambush the men from First
Regiment. The narrowness of the ravine, and the overhang of willow
trees--these growing in clefts of rock, fingering their roots down to
the subterranean stream--were enough, Hartford prayed, to prevent the
veeto-platform's pilot from spotting the Kansans lying in wait with
their blowguns.

Hartford disposed his troops on the shelves, checking to see that
each man had a good field of fire and adequate cover. He glanced at
the sun, the Kansan timepiece. It was between six and eight in the
evening, he judged, the Hour of the Clock. He pressed his ear to the
radio-receiver. Short-range, the safety-suit radio picked up only
occasional orders from Axenite officers and non-coms. Twice Hartford
caught the name, "Lieutenant Felix." He smiled, feeling mixed emotions.
Felix had been his old Platoon Sergeant, and they would face each other
in an hour or so as enemies. Very likely the fifty troopers chasing Ito
Juro and his fellows toward the canyon included men of the Terrible
Third Platoon, his old command. Hartford checked to see his bitcher
worked and waited the arrival of the message-blabrigars with fresh news.


                                  XI

The first bird arrived a few moments before the radio began coming in
clear.

"_Sakura_," Hartford said, this being the prompt-word to which the
blabrigar was trained to reply.

"Fifty men, sir; fifty men, sir; on the way, sir; on the way, sir," the
bird chanted into Hartford's ear. He let the bird rest on his shoulder;
it would have to fly back to the scout who'd sent it soon, to tell him
to join the rest of them at the ambush-point.

The sun was low in the sky. H-hour was near. The signals began coming
closer-together. "Saw one Stinker off your left flank, Miller.... Left
flank-guard reporting, sir. That Gook took off due east. Blabrigar on
his shoulder.... Lieutenant Felix here. Anything on the right flank?...
Nothing, sir.... Keep moving, Lieutenant." This last voice was the
colonel's.

Hartford frowned. If Nasty Nef had come out in person, the game would
have to be played fast and dirty.

Hartford set his bitcher low. "_Abunai yo!_" he said to his guerrillas,
sprawled out all along the ledge like figurines on a mantlepiece. "Be
cautious. Shoot your dart and get behind something. From now on, be
silent. The enemy is near."

Takeko spoke: "You mean, Lee-chan, that our brothers draw near." The
other Kansans smiled. Some saluted, a gesture they'd observed among the
Axenites they'd been spying upon for the past few days.

The first of the scouts came galloping up the gullet of the canyon.
Without a sound he signaled his watching comrades, invisible above him.
He made a circle with his hand, pointing up. That meant the Regiment's
veeto-platform was scouting ahead of the approaching Axenites. The
first man slapped his _giraffu_ to hasten it up the pass, past the
Daibutsu. Two other scouts, the foxes urging on the hounds, came
shouting into the canyon. Neither of them was Ito Jiro. As his name
signified, Jiro was the youngest son of Ito-san, the knife-maker. He
was the darling of the family. Where was he? Hartford worried.

The radio, no longer masked by the rocks, was filled with information.
Hartford heard the veeto-pilot reporting: "They're headed up the gulch
past the big idol, sir," he said. "There's a village up there. That's
where they're probably headed. What do you want me to do, sir?" The
platform hovered over the canyon, unwilling to work its way into the
jagged, bamboo-and-pine-prickly fissure.

"Keep in touch, Sky-Eye," Nef ordered. "We're coming right up."

"Felix here, sir," the lieutenant reported. "We've got one of the Gooks
prisoner. He's just a kid. Doesn't seem to know a thing."

"Hold him till we get someone who talks Stinker," Nef said.

They got Jiro, Hartford thought. Damn.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first of the troopers, an officer in the blue safety-suit,
spearheaded the column. "Nothing in sight yet," Felix's voice reported.
The officer signaled "Come on" with the sweep of his arm, and the
first squad of Axenites, dispersed as skirmishers, formed themselves
into a file to enter the canyon. The veeto-platform above kept the
foliage pressed down with its jet of air, stirring dust that both
improved concealment and threatened to trigger a sneeze from one of the
ambushers.

Hartford peered cautiously over the edge of the shelf. He'd set his
forces far enough back in the canyon that the entire Axenite column
would be encased. "Sir, this is Felix," the radio said. "Do you agree,
sir, that I should place one squad in reserve till the rest get through
the gully?"

"Peel off one squad and stay with it, Felix," Nef said.

Felix's voice again: "Sir, it was our Lieutenant Hartford that the
Gooks got. I'd like to go in early."

"Very well, Felix. Miller, hold your squad where it is. Disperse them
well, and wait my order before bringing them into the ditch. Confirm."

"Done and done, sir," Miller snapped.

The first two dozen troopers were in the canyon now, half the Axenite
force. Colonel Nef had shown the good sense to don an ordinary blue
safety-suit; his scarlet command-suit would have made him a splendid
target. Another squad entered, their Dardick-rifles held at the ready.
This would have to be quick, Hartford thought, or he'd lose his entire
corps at their first volley. He raised his hand, a signal visible only
to Takeko. She cupped her hands around her mouth and whistled the call
of the nightingale, "Ho-o-kekyo ... kekyo!"

Before the echoed notes had died, the darts had found their targets.

The radio was a clutter of undisciplined Damn's, cries of "I've been
hit!" One trooper, quicker than the rest, caught sight of a Kansan. He
raised his rifle and purred out a stream of Dardick-pellets. Yoritomo,
apprentice to the paper-maker, tumbled over the lip of the ledge, his
blowpipe falling with him like a jack-straw. There was a babble on the
radio. Nef overrode all other circuits to command: "At ease! Rake the
ledges with sustained fire."

The canyon was blasted with a confetti of metal and spalled rock as the
troopers hosed the shelves with bullets.

The angle made aiming impossible. But by luck and the intensity of the
barrage another man, the carpenter's son, had toppled to his death.

"Sky-Eye! Get your butt down here!" Nef bellowed. "Decontamination
Team! Bring the vehicle to the mouth of the canyon. We've got men
septic." He tongued-on his bitcher and bellowed at the troopers. "On
the double, through the ditch."

"_Yuke!_" Hartford shouted to the men far up the wall, in the niche
that held the Daibutsu. "Go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The sappers at the back of the giant bronze statue bent to their
levers. The tons of metal scooted slowly forward, hit the fat-smeared
edge of the shelf. As quietly as a man rocking forward in prayer, the
Daibutsu dropped head-down into the ravine. It struck the bottom with
the sound of a great gong, and rocked, unshattered, plugging the throat
of the canyon, standing as a dam. The hands of the Enlightened One were
held in the positions of Protection and of Giving; His face bore still
a quiet smile. About the head of the image a fountain of water burst,
squeezed up from the stream below. "_Namu Amida Butsu!_" Takeko said,
cuddled against Hartford, staring down.

"Keep down," he said. He lifted his suit-radio and flicked on the
transmission-switch. "This is Lee Hartford, late of the First
Regiment," he announced. "The safety-suits of most of you have
been breached. There is not room for more than three of you in the
Decontamination Vehicle. You are not septic. I repeat: you have not
been contaminated. Kansas is as safe for you as the Barracks, or Titan,
or the M'Bwene planets, or in the cells at Luna. You do not need your
safety-suits on Kansas."

"Find that man and gun the traitor down," Nef's voice demanded from the
speaker on his suit.

"I am coming out unarmed," Hartford radioed.

"Fire the moment you see him," Nef said. One of the officers had his
Dardick-pistol drawn, his eyes traversing the canyon walls.

"No, sir!" Felix's voice snapped from his bitcher. "You can't shoot the
man till he's had a chance to speak."

"Go to the rear at once, Private Felix," Nef bellowed.

Felix pointed his handgun toward Nef. "No, sir," he replied. "Hartford
was my C.O., and an honest man. I'll hear him before I see him killed.
Or by my life, sir, I'll kill you after him."

"This is treason," Nef said.

"Drop your pistol, sir, or I'll have to try to shoot it from your hand.
Excuse me, sir," Felix said.

Nef's gun dropped.

"You all hear me?" Felix bitched. "Hear me out there, Miller?" There
was a chorus of "Roger!" Felix went on: "I'm going to unclamp my
helmet, troopers. I'm going to take off my safety-suit. That's how much
I trust Lee Hartford, troopers. The man who tries to stop Hartford
better begin with me." Felix opened his helmet, removed it, and placed
it on the rocks beside him. He went up to drink from the fountain that
sparkled about the head of the Daibutsu, cupping his hands. "It's good
water, men," he said. "Come on down, Hartford," he shouted through the
clear night air.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lee Hartford twisted over the edge of the shelf, held himself by his
finger-tips, and dropped. He stood before his old comrades in arms
dressed as a country Kansan. His head bore only a stubble of hair, and
a scarlet blabrigar came down to settle familiarly on his shoulder. "I
caused your suits to be breached for good reason," he said, speaking
into the bitcher he'd recovered from his safety-suit. "If any of you
has a sore backside because of the darts my men sent at you, please
accept my apologies." Two more Axenites removed their helmets, and
stood grinning uncertainly at Hartford. "I have lived on Kansas for
two weeks, living like a native. I've breathed Kansan air, eaten their
wonderful food and even kissed one of their girls." There was a murmur
of laughter. "I'm as healthy as ever I was inside the Barracks,"
Hartford said. "And I'm a good deal happier."

There was louder laughter among the Axenites, and more helmets
opened. Hartford turned to look behind him. Takeko was hanging by her
finger-tips off the shelf, trying to work up the courage to drop. He
went over to stand below her. "Fall to me, darling," he said. "Fall
into my arms."

"I hear, _shujin_, and obey," Takeko squeaked, and dropped.

When Hartford released Takeko and turned to face the troopers, every
helmet but Nef's was opened. Half a dozen of the men had already
stripped to their Class B's. They had their faces tilted into the wind
that was sweeping up the gullet of the canyon, smelling for the first
time in their lives the scents of open nature, the spice of green
life in the air. They were seeing the Kansas sky; a mosaic of stars,
unfiltered by helmets. They were breathing air not humid with their
own perspiration. Holding Takeko's hand in his, Hartford walked up to
Felix. "You saved the day, old buddy," he said.

There was the cough of a tapped-off Dardick-round.

Felix fell. Colonel Nef, his pistol held at the hip, tilted it toward
Hartford. He looked startled for a moment, then dropped the pistol.
In his wrist were three blowgun-darts. Clustered across his chest
were half a dozen more. Hartford waved at the Kansans on the ledge.
"_Arigato!_" he shouted, and told them to come down.

Two men had died in the engagement: Yoritomo the paper-maker and
Sannosuke the carpenter's son. Felix's thigh-bone had been broken by
Nef's shot; and Colonel Nef's right wrist would require attention. A
medical officer had been sent for from the Barracks to set Felix's leg.
The dead men were carried on litters up to the shelves and around the
fallen Daibutsu to the village. Hartford splinted his friend's broken
leg. "What now, Hartford?" Felix asked.

"I suggest that you all become guests in Yamamura."

"Done and done," Felix said.

Takeko came up to lay a bunch of flowers on his chest. "They smell
sweet," she said. "Courage such as yours smells sweet in the nostrils
of heaven."

"Thank you, Ma'am," Felix said. He turned his head to follow the girl
as she took a second handful of flowers to place it beside the fountain
that jetted about the head-standing Daibutsu. "I can see where this
will be a popular planet to do duty on, Lieutenant," he said. "What you
discovered here will pretty well wipe out the Brotherhood."

"You're right," Hartford said. "The Brotherhood is doomed."

They watched as Takeko knelt before the inverted image. "_Namu Amida
Butsu_," she said. "All men are the same in the sight of Amida, the
Lord of Boundless Light."

"Maybe I'm wrong, Lieutenant," Felix said. "Maybe the Brotherhood just
got started."





End of Project Gutenberg's The Chemically Pure Warriors, by Allen Kim Lang

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CHEMICALLY PURE WARRIORS ***

***** This file should be named 61316.txt or 61316.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/3/1/61316/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
