The Project Gutenberg EBook of Another Earth, by David Evans and Al Landau

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Another Earth

Author: David Evans
        Al Landau

Release Date: February 10, 2020 [EBook #61367]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ANOTHER EARTH ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             ANOTHER EARTH

                      BY DAVID EVANS & AL LANDAU

               Whatever it was that had happened in the
               test, it badly needed a good explanation.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Worlds of If Science Fiction, May 1963.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


                                   I

Lieutenant Colonel Philip Snow, Flight Surgeon, USAF, and Test Director
of the Aero-Medical Laboratory, was pacing the study floor in his
quarters, asking himself for the dozenth time in the past half-hour:
What had happened to Richardson during the test that afternoon?

He was no stranger to problems. He had been living with them for the
past few years, and they had been problems the like of which had never
before challenged the ingenuity of man. For he was the head of a small
community of men, scientists like himself--medical specialists of all
kinds, psychologists, electronic technicians, physicists, pressure
engineers, mathematicians and so on, each one of them an acknowledged
expert in his particular field--who had worked together with one end
in view: to send a man into space and bring him back safely to Earth
again. To put it more excitingly: to enable man to take his first step
toward the conquest of the universe.

The result of their labors to date was the Capsule, a bottle-shaped
contraption which occupied the center of the laboratory floor.

It wasn't very big; just big enough to contain a man enclosed in a
spacesuit, lying on a couch surrounded by instruments. But there wasn't
a square inch of the capsule itself, the spacesuit, and the instruments
which hadn't presented innumerable problems, the solving of which had
been the result of endless research and theorizing and testing.

And in the same way, and almost to the same extent, there wasn't a
square inch of the man, too, which didn't present problems, all of
which must be solved before he could be sent into space.

And so, in test after test, one of the chosen astronauts had lain on
the couch in the capsule, wired through his spacesuit to the dozens of
dials and graph recorders on the consoles at which sat the watching
specialists. It seemed there was nothing that could happen inside his
body that they could not know about. They could read every flexing
of his muscles, every heartbeat, every tiny shifting of temperature,
every reaction of his blood and of his complicated nervous system. On
the encephalograph, they could even detect reactions in the mass of
gray matter which was his brain, any sign of tension there, and above
all, any symptom of that strange phenomenon of which so little was yet
known, and which was called the "breakoff"--the eerie sensation of
complete isolation from Earth, the trancelike apathy and indifference
to survival that can attack not only high-flying pilots, but deep-sea
divers, "the rapture of the depths," and sometimes it was accompanied
by hallucinations in which strange forms and sounds were seen and heard.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the case of Lieutenant Hamilton Richardson, USN, there had been
no mysterious troubles of this kind--in fact, no troubles of any
kind at all. Aged thirty-six, he had been one of the first of the
astronauts to volunteer. He had passed with flying colors every one
of the grueling preliminary tests, mental and physical, and as far as
could be judged by science, he had seemed to be the perfect specimen,
mentally and physically, for the job. In the many tests made with him
inside the capsule, nothing had gone wrong with him. There had been
no signs of fatigue or failure of any kind. Had Snow been asked who,
in his opinion, would be the first man--or, at any rate, the first
American--to go into deep space, he would unhesitatingly have nominated
Richardson. That is to say, until that afternoon when the thing had
happened.

It had been a long test, one made for the first time. The object of
it was to find out how the spacesuit, which was sealed off from the
rest of the capsule, would stand up if something happened to the
capsule itself. If, for instance, in its headlong flight through space,
something struck it, something, maybe, no bigger than a small pebble.
The odds were that in collision with even so small a meteor, the shell
of the capsule would be punctured, and within a minute or less, the
atmospheric pressure inside it, fixed at about five thousand feet above
sea level, would be reduced to zero. In other words, the capsule would
become a vacuum in which nothing on Earth could live. The astronaut
would then have to depend upon his spacesuit which, being pressurized,
and being really a capsule within a capsule, with its own supply of
oxygen, would be the one hope of survival.

That day, the test had consisted of the "puncturing" of the capsule.
At a given signal, the pressure inside it had been reduced to that of
fifty miles above the Earth's surface--in other words, to zero--by
pumping out the air inside it. Richardson, the ace of the astronauts,
had been chosen for this important test.

It had gone well. With the other scientists at their dials, Snow,
seated at the big console of literally dozens of dials, the only one to
be connected with Richardson by sound and speech, had given the signal.
In a minute, the capsule had become a vacuum fifty miles above the
surface of the Earth, outside its envelope of atmosphere.

Richardson's voice, reading his instruments, acknowledging Snow's
instructions, answering his questions, had come through as normal
and as calm as ever. Snow had felt a rising excitement as the test
proceeded.

And then, without warning, the thing had happened. Richardson's voice
had stopped in the middle of an instrument reading, as if it had
suddenly been cut off. A few seconds later, it had resumed. But when
it did so, the voice was uttering a stream of unintelligible sounds
in a low, lilting chant. Snow had listened incredulously for perhaps
thirty seconds, at the end of which the sounds had suddenly ceased.
Immediately, Snow had given instructions for the normal pressure inside
the capsule to be restored. Almost as he had done so, Richardson's
voice, once again normal, had resumed the reading of the instruments,
taking up from where it had left off a minute before.

Acting on a sudden impulse. Snow had decided to say nothing over the
wire to Richardson at the time. He had continued his conversation with
the astronaut, telling him they were "bringing him down" and asking the
usual questions until the test ended.

       *       *       *       *       *

When, with the others, he had stood around watching while Richardson
was helped out of his spacesuit, he had carefully watched their faces,
looking for some sign of doubt or puzzlement. But he saw none. On the
contrary, they all seemed triumphantly satisfied. Even Richardson had
shown no sign that anything unusual had occurred. He had been his usual
cheerful self, seeming not even slightly fatigued by the long test.

Being the only one who had been in contact with Richardson, Snow
had suddenly found himself wondering if he really had heard those
sounds, if, maybe, he had been the victim of a hallucination. This
was why he had said nothing about it at the time. He had just asked,
as casually as he could, if any of them had anything they wanted to
bring up immediately. They had shaken their heads, beaming their
satisfaction, and he had dismissed them all, saying that in view of the
length of the test they might all call it a day, and postponing the
usual interrogation until the morrow. Then he had hurried back to his
quarters, bringing with him the recording machine on which, as was the
practice, his conversation with Richardson during the test had been
recorded. Controlling his impatience with difficulty, he had rewound
the tape on the machine and played it back, the tension rising within
him as he listened.

There had been no hallucination. He heard Richardson's voice reading
the instrument, the sudden cut-off in the middle of it, the short
silence, then the voice uttering the strange sounds in a low-pitched
chant with a gentle rise and fall to it. Three times he had played it
back, and now it seemed to him that these were not just disconnected
sounds. They appeared to have a cadence, a phrasing which indicated
that they belonged to a language of some sort.

Snow was no linguist. He had less than a fair conversational knowledge
of French and German, and a scholar's acquaintance with Latin, but he
had travelled very extensively in his time and had been accustomed
to hear many languages spoken. He was quite sure he had never heard
anything even remotely resembling these sounds. Certainly Richardson
was no linguist either. He was third-generation American from British
stock, and all he knew about languages was what he had learned in
school.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then where had those sounds come from? Were they a language, and if
so, what did they mean? How could this happen to a man like Richardson
without his knowing about it? Did it mean that here was, after all,
something strange about him which the man himself might not even know
about, and which might mean that he was not fit for the project? This
last question worried Snow more than the others.

He went to the telephone on his desk and dialed the Richardson
bungalow. The voice of Richardson's pretty wife answered him.

"Yes? Sandra Richardson here."

"Hello, Sandra. Phil Snow calling. Is Ham there?"

"He's in the shower singing his head off. Shall I get him?"

"No, it isn't important. I just wanted to ask him again if he feels all
right after the test. It was rather a long one, and I wondered if he
might feel tired, or...."

"Tired? He seems even more full of pep than usual. Was the test so very
long, then?"

"Yes, it was. That's why I called and--just to tell him it was a
success. I haven't checked all the reports yet, but it looks good. And
you say he's as usual?"

"Yes. Why? There wasn't anything...?"

"No, no, nothing at all. Just as I said. I'll be seeing you."

He rang off, hoping that nothing he had said was now making Sandra
Richardson suspicious, and resumed his pacing up and down the floor.
Now another question came into his mind. The same test would be run
several times again before final conclusions could be made. Should
he wait for them to see if this thing happened again before starting
anything with Richardson and his colleagues? But even as he asked
himself the question, he knew the answer. If this never again happened
in any future test, the fact would remain that it had happened once
and could not be forgotten or brushed aside. It must be cleared up.
Something had happened to Richardson's mind.

He decided to take Abe Franstein, his head psychologist, into his
confidence. As he dialed Franstein's bungalow, he recalled with a sense
of comfort that the brilliant little man was not only a world authority
in his particular subject, but that he was said to be able to read,
write, and converse in a staggering number of languages, some of them
obscure Oriental dialects.

When Franstein answered the call, Snow asked him to drop in for coffee
after dinner.


                                  II

"Well, I must say," said Franstein as they sipped their coffee, "yours
is the first glum face I've seen around here since that test this
afternoon. Here we are, within sight of our goal at last, and look at
you! Weren't you satisfied?"

"Before I go into that," Snow replied, "there are a few things I want
to ask you."

"About the test?"

"In a way, but principally about Richardson. Have you ever had any
reason to suspect that there is anything unusual about him?"

"In what way?"

"In your line."

Franstein produced an enormous meerschaum pipe and proceeded to fill it
from an untidy plastic pouch as he replied.

"Yes, there is. One very unusual thing."

"There is?"

"He's got a very rare type of mind. It's probably perfectly balanced."
The little man lit his pipe and continued: "The vast majority of us
have some sort of imbalance, mentally. He hasn't. When I say imbalance,
I mean the sort of thing that makes for genius, a phenomenal memory, an
outstanding, effortless talent, amnesia, any form of insanity, or even
something like a violent temper. Anything, so to speak, overemphasized."

"Is it physical? I mean, does it have anything to do with the size or
weight of the brain, or anything like that?"

"You can take the brain of a genius and that of an ordinary person of
average intelligence, and find them exactly the same in measurements
and tissue condition. The popular conception of the genius as a man
with a bulging forehead is so much nonsense. Plenty of lunatics and
retarded individuals have bulging foreheads."

"Then what does it have to do with?"

"Ah! That's the big question. Nobody knows. You can take two men, equal
physically in every respect, equal in upbringing, education, health,
and with the same sized brain. One of them might turn out to be a
genius, the other an average individual, and nobody knows what makes
the difference. Nobody knows what makes an infant prodigy, or what it
is which enables a child of two to read easily, or a kid of five or
six to play some instrument as if he'd been at it for years or compose
symphonies, or master advanced mathematics. Same answer. Nobody knows.
It's got nothing to do with heredity. So few geniuses have had genius
offspring that they form exceptions to the rule. Again, why does an
infant prodigy sometimes lose his gift or talent entirely as he grows
older? We don't know. All we know is that the gift or talent is there,
but where it comes from, or why it is in one brain and not in another,
we don't know. But surely you don't have to have me to tell you all
this, Phil? What's on your mind?"

"Listen to this," Snow said, and went to the tape recorder.

       *       *       *       *       *

He rewound the tape to its beginning, depressed the switch marked
_Play_, and presently they heard the two voices, Snow's and
Richardson's.

"Now!" said Snow as the point on the tape approached.

There came the sudden stopping of Richardson's voice in the middle
of an instrument reading, the short silence, then Richardson's voice
chanting the strange sounds. Franstein took his pipe from between his
teeth and his mouth fell open as he listened. The sounds ceased and
Richardson's voice resumed the instrument reading at the point at which
it had left off.

"That's all," said Snow, and switched off the machine.

Franstein put his pipe back into his mouth. "Is this the recording of
this afternoon's test?"

"Yes. What d'you make of it?"

"Let's hear it again."

Snow played back the recording a second and a third time, and then
said: "Well?"

Franstein went to the table and helped himself to more coffee before
replying. "It's a new one on me," he said presently. "I've got about a
thousand recordings of languages and dialects from all over the world,
and not one of them is anything like that."

"You think it is a language, not just sounds?"

"That we've got to find out, but I'd say, offhand, it's a primitive
form of a language of some sort."

"Then how the devil does it come out of a man like Richardson who's
never spoken anything but English--nor his forebears, for that matter?"

Franstein shrugged his shoulders. "How does great music come out of a
child of six, and so on? Same question, same answer. Nobody knows.
Have you spoken to Richardson about it?"

"No. I rang his bungalow just before dinner and spoke to Sandra.
Richardson was in the shower, and she said he was feeling fine. I
didn't tell her about this, of course."

"Then it couldn't have been some sort of mediumistic trance. They
usually feel the effects of that sooner or later."

"You're not suggesting spiritualism, are you?" and in Snow's voice was
a note of amusement.

"Don't laugh at it. If it's never been proved, neither has it been
disproved."

And that touched off a discussion which went on for two hours. It
covered many theories, many beliefs and faiths, all of which Franstein
spoke learnedly and with great respect. He talked of reincarnation,
spiritualism, the mystery of time, and in this last connection, he
paused in the middle of what he was saying and asked: "If this--" and
he waved a hand toward the machine--"is a language, and I'm pretty
sure it is, how can we be sure that it is a language of the past? Why
shouldn't it be one belonging to the future? All languages change with
time. We'd probably find it very difficult to understand the English
spoken ten centuries ago. What if this is the English that is going to
be spoken a thousand years hence?"

       *       *       *       *       *

To all of which Snow listened with the skepticism of the exact
scientist, and Franstein, quick to notice this, went on: "You think
yourselves clever, you exact scientists, and so you are. You can do
a lot of things. You can split the atom, measure the stars, estimate
the life expectancy of the sun; you have conquered distance, you have
surrounded us with miracles like radio, television, invisible rays and
all the rest of it. Presently, you will conquer space and colonize the
planets, and so it will go until it will seem to you that you will
know everything. And you will too, except for one thing--the one final
mystery, the last secret of the universe--MAN. And that means you and
me, and any human being from a bum of Skid Row to the President. Man
is the eternal unknown quantity, and you've never had a more clear
demonstration of this than what happened to Richardson this afternoon.
Oh, I know what you've found out. You know all about man, his insides,
his glands, muscles, nerves, brain, and so on. You can even display him
on a table as a bucket of water and little piles of salts and minerals,
and you can point to them and say: 'That is what man is made of.' Only
the other day I was reading about some scientist who thinks he's on
the verge of producing a cell of life in a test tube. You may even do
that, and you may find out one day how to put the water and the salts
and the minerals together again and make a man. I've always thought the
Frankenstein story was a bit of inspired prophecy. But you still won't
be able to explain why great music can come from a child of six, or
what happened to Richardson this afternoon." He lit his big pipe, which
had gone out, and through the puffs asked: "And what do you propose to
do about Richardson?"

"Run the test again tomorrow with him and see if this happens again,
and then decide," replied Snow.

"But even if nothing happens tomorrow, you can't ignore this."

"That's true. We've got to get to the bottom of it, and that's where
you come in. You're the expert on this sort of thing."

Franstein looked at his watch. "Let's sleep on it and see what happens
tomorrow, eh?"

He was on his way to the door when the telephone bell rang. Snow picked
up the receiver, and he heard him say: "Sandra?... _What?_... I'll be
right over. I've got Abe Franstein with me. I'll bring him with me.
Don't worry dear."

Snow hung up. "Something's happened to Richardson," he said. "He's gone
into a deep sleep and won't wake, and he's talking to himself in some
funny language. Let's go."

Snow rummaged in a drawer of his desk and found a stethoscope.


                                  III

Five minutes later, they were standing with pretty Sandra Richardson at
the foot of the bed on which Richardson, clad in his pajamas, sprawled
on his back. He was in a deep sleep and from his mouth came a low
chanting. Franstein and Snow glanced at each other as they recognized
the sounds.

Snow tried to wake the astronaut, gently at first, then less so, but it
had no effect. He used his stethoscope on heart and lungs, drew back an
eyelid and examined the eye beneath, felt the brow.

"When did this happen?" he asked the anxious Sandra.

"About fifteen, maybe twenty minutes ago," she replied. "We came in
here and undressed and I used the bathroom first. When I came out, I
found him like this."

"How's he been all the evening?"

"Fine, just as I told you when you rang. Tom and Betty Moreland came
for dinner and we played canasta. Is he all right?"

"As far as I can see, yes. Heart, lungs, eyes all right, no fever. I
guess we'll just have to wait till he wakes."

They went into the sitting room and Sandra left them to make coffee.

"He's living through something," Franstein said. "Pity you haven't got
the recorder here."

"I thought the same. I'll get it."

Snow left and Franstein wandered back into the bedroom and leaned over
Richardson. Now he was sure this was a language and that the sleeper
was conversing with someone in his sleep. The expressions changed on
Richardson's face rapidly as they do on the face of anyone during a
conversation. At one moment he laughed as he said something, then
became serious as he said something else.

Sandra came into the bedroom and joined Franstein at the bedside. "He's
never been like this before," she said worriedly.

"Doesn't he ever talk in his sleep?"

"He never even snores. When we were first married, he slept so quietly
that I thought he'd stopped breathing, but I'd only have to touch him
or whisper to him and he'd wake in an instant. What does this mean?"

"We'll find out, never fear."

They went back into the sitting room as they heard Snow return. He was
carrying the recording machine, and seeing the question in Sandra's
eyes as she saw it, he said reassuringly: "We're going to make a
recording of what Ham's saying. We'll soon find out what this is all
about."

He busied himself changing the tapes on the machine, taking the new
one from his pocket, and fumbled the job in his haste. He had plugged
in the microphone and was unwinding the long chord when they heard
Richardson's voice call out from the next room: "Sandra!" and a moment
later, Richardson appeared in the open doorway, staring at them in
astonishment.

"Abe! Phil! When did you come here?"

"About half an hour ago," Snow replied.

       *       *       *       *       *

Richardson passed a hand over his eyes. "I must have fallen asleep," he
said.

"You did, darling, and I couldn't wake you," Sandra said. "So I called
Phil."

"You couldn't wake me?"

"No, and you were talking away in your sleep. You had me worried."

"Why?"

Sandra, at a loss, looked at Franstein and he answered for her. "You
were dreaming, Ham," he said.

Richardson thought for a moment before replying. "Now that you mention
it, I was. But what's so extraordinary about that? Why are you all
looking at me as if I'd suddenly grown horns?

"D'you remember what the dream was about?" Franstein asked.

"Vaguely. Yes, I do. It was just a dream. Why is it so important?" He
sat down in a deep chair and looked around at them. "What is all this?"
he said. "I fall asleep for half an hour, have a silly dream, and wake
up to find you here looking as if something big has happened."

"Something has happened, Ham," said Franstein. "Something we don't
understand." Richardson started up in his seat. "Take it easy, there's
nothing to worry about. We'll get to the bottom of it." He turned to
Snow. "I think I know the way out of this. Play the recording for Ham
to hear."

Snow hesitated for a moment. "All right, if you think so," he said, and
busied himself with the recorder, replacing the used tape on the spool.

Sandra perched herself on the arm of her husband's chair and put an arm
about his shoulders. They waited while Snow linked up the end of the
tape to the other spool. He pressed the _Play_ switch, and presently
there came the voices of Snow and Richardson.

"That's this afternoon's test," Richardson said.

Franstein nodded, and they continued to listen. Then came the chanting
sounds, and when he heard them, Richardson's expression changed to one
of amazement. Snow switched off the machine.

"What was that?" Richardson asked.

"We hoped you'd be able to tell us," Franstein replied.

"I? What should I know about it?"

"That was your voice, Ham. Nobody's touched the tape, and I heard it
during the test."

"But this is crazy. How could I make a noise like that without knowing
anything about it? Why, I remember every second of that test, and I
know I didn't do anything like that." He jumped to his feet and began
to walk up and down the room, his hands pressed to his head.

"I said take it easy, Ham," Franstein said.

Richardson pulled up short in his pacing and turned to the little
man. "How can I take it easy? I spend six hours in the capsule in a
difficult test, remember every bit of it, come out of it feeling not
even tired, and now you tell me that in the middle of it I had some
sort of a blackout and made funny noises. That can only mean that
there's something wrong with me, and you don't have to tell me what
that means. I don't qualify, after all. Is that what you came here to
tell me?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Franstein's voice was as quiet as before. "It doesn't mean anything of
the sort. If there'd been a blackout or if something else had happened
to your brain, it would have shown up on the encephalograph, and
nothing showed. I didn't know about this until I heard the recording,
and we weren't going to say anything about it until we'd run the test
a second time. Then Sandra called us to say she couldn't wake you and
that you were talking in your sleep, and we came over to find you in a
sleep as deep as a coma and obviously dreaming."

"And what's that got to do with the test?"

"You were making the same sort of sounds in your sleep as you did in
the test, and I'm sure they add up to a language of some sort."

"_What?_ You mean to say that was a language? For Pete's sake, I've
never spoken anything but English all my life. I can't."

"We know that."

Richardson turned to his wife. "Is this true?" he asked her tensely.
"Was I making noises like that in my sleep?"

She nodded miserably.

He threw up his hands. "Okay," he said, "you're three to one. The ace
astronaut turns out to be some sort of nut who talks monkey language
in his sleep, and when he's awake too, without knowing it." He went to
the deep chair and slumped down into it. "What do we do now? Go into
analysis again? Start all over?" He laughed shortly and bitterly, and
added: "Or do I resign from the project?"

"Listen, Ham," Franstein said. "We're up against something new,
something I don't understand, and whatever happens, we've got to try
and find out what it is, for your sake as well as for the project's.
Let's relax and start with the dream. Tell us what you remember of it."

Richardson took time to calm down before he spoke. "It was just a
dream," he began presently. "There was a big spaceship and a lot of
people standing about."

"Where was this?"

"Where? I don't know. On Earth, I suppose. Open place, you know,
only...." He paused before going on. "Only it wasn't standing up on end
like a rocket. It was lying on its side, and we were loading it."

"Who were 'we'?"

"My father and my two brothers. And that shows how silly the dream was
because I haven't got any brothers or father. My father in the dream
wasn't anything like my own. He was just an old man, and he told us
where to stow the crates."

"What was in the crates?"

"In the crates?" Richardson looked up. "Let me see now. Oh, yes, they
were full of the seeds of plants and eggs and sperm of animals--sort of
the beginnings of things."

"And where was the ship going to?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Again, Richardson concentrated before replying. "To another Earth," he
said. "That's right. The old guy, our father, said that this one was
going to be destroyed by some disaster, and the people standing about
were laughing and jeering and saying the old man was crazy."

"Do you know what sort of disaster was going to happen?" asked
Franstein.

Richardson looked at him and suddenly a smile formed on his face. "Now
I know where that dream came from," he said. "Remember that book _On
The Beach_? The story about how everyone on Earth was wiped out by
nuclear fallout? That's it! I remember wondering when I read it if some
of us would be able to go to another planet before anything like that
happened here, and I remember thinking, too, that we'd probably take
things like seeds and so on with us, and even the ova of animals, and
that by then we'd probably know how to preserve them--freeze them or
something of the sort."

"We can do that now," Snow said.

"Well, there it is, then," said Richardson, smiling again. "There's the
explanation."

"It explains the dream all right," agreed Snow, "but what about the
sounds? Particularly those you made in the capsule?"

"Lord, yes!" said Richardson, and the smile left his face. "I'd
forgotten about those. That puts us back to where we came in, doesn't
it?"

"I'm not so sure," said Franstein. He got to his feet and, in his turn,
prowled up and down the room, deep in thought. The others waited for
him to go on, and presently he turned to them, a glint of excitement in
his eyes. "I think we're onto something," he said. "Those sounds are
obviously a part of your dream, Ham, including the ones you made in the
capsule, and only you know what they mean."

"But I don't even remember making them!"

"No, but your mind does. If we can unlock your mind, we can find the
secret, and there's a way in which it can be done. Hypnosis."

"Hypnosis?" The others spoke at once.

Franstein nodded. "I've got to put you into a hypnotic trance, Ham,
and we'll play that recording back to you and I think--only think,
remember--that you're going to be able to tell us what they mean. Any
objection, Phil?"

"You're the expert."

"How about you, Ham?"

"I'll do anything to clear up this business." He jumped to his feet.
"Let's get on with it now. What do I do? Shall I lie down on the sofa?"

"I didn't know you are a hypnotist too, Abe," said Snow. "I'm not
surprised, though. I might have known."

Franstein took no notice of this. He stepped up to Richardson and
looked up at him, holding out one hand which the other, wonderingly,
took. "The big thing is confidence, Ham," he said, looking up
earnestly. "Complete confidence. You have that in me?"

Richardson looked down on the little man and nodded his head. "Sure,"
he said. "I've always had that in you, Abe."

Franstein continued to hold the other's hand. "That's fine," he said.
"All you have to do is to relax and trust in me. Just relax completely.
Just let yourself go--eh?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Richardson's head nodded again, and for a moment Franstein, still
holding the hand continued to look up into Richardson's face above
him. Then he released the hand and said: "Now you can lie down on the
couch if you like."

Richardson went to the couch and stretched himself out on it.

"I've heard a lot about this," Sandra said, "but I've never seen it
done."

Franstein smiled at her. "You've just seen it done, my dear," he said,
and as she stared back at him in astonishment, added: "He's a very good
subject. Now, when that machine is ready...."

"If I'm right in what I think," Franstein said a few minutes later to
Snow, who stood by the table on which now rested the recorder, and to
Sandra who was at the head of the couch looking down on her husband who
lay there, his eyes half-closed, "you're going to hear something very
surprising. Please don't make a sound."

They nodded their heads, and Franstein seated himself on the edge of
the couch, leaned over Richardson, and spoke softly: "You hear me, Ham?"

"Yes, I hear you."

"Then listen." Franstein turned and nodded to Snow. The machine was
switched on and there came, clearly, the chanted sounds of the test.
They finished and the machine was switched off. "You heard, Ham?"

"Yes, I heard."

"You made those sounds that we just heard."

"Yes."

"Can you repeat them?"

"Yes."

"Then do so."

And now the strange low chanting sounds streamed from Richardson's
lips. Sandra put her hands to her mouth to stifle a gasp. Snow stepped
to her side, his face tense.

The sounds ceased and Franstein, his eyes alight with excitement, said
softly: "Tell us, to whom are you speaking?"

"To my sons."

"Tell us in English what you are saying to them."

There was a silence. Franstein repeated his command, and Richardson
spoke again, this time in his normal voice.

"_And God saw the earth, and behold it was corrupt; for all flesh
had corrupted their way upon the earth. And God said to Noah, I have
determined to make an end of all flesh; for the earth is filled with
violence through them; behold I will destroy them with the earth. Make
yourself an ark ... and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons,
your wife, and your sons' wives with you. And of every living thing of
all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them
alive with you, they shall be male and female.... Also take with you
every sort of food that is eaten and store it up.... And Noah did all
that the Lord had commanded him._..."

The voice tapered off into silence, and Sandra, her eyes wide with fear
and amazement whispered: "That's the story of the Flood and he told it
as if he was there. What does it mean?"

Franstein silenced her with a gesture and bent over Richardson whose
eyes were closed. "Ham," he said, a note of insistence in his voice,
"you hear me? Answer!"

The eyes half opened. "Yes, I hear you."

"Tell me, where did you go in the ark?"

"To a place of many waters ... many waters, and we rested on them until
they went down." Now the voice was fading.

"Where was it? Tell me, where was it?"

The reply came in almost a whisper. "I don't know. It was another
earth ... another earth...."

The eyes closed again, the breathing became deeper, but the lips still
moved, and through them, barely heard in the tense silence, came again
the low, chanting sounds. Then they, too, died away to silence, the
lips ceased to move, and Richardson slept.





End of Project Gutenberg's Another Earth, by David Evans and Al Landau

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ANOTHER EARTH ***

***** This file should be named 61367.txt or 61367.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/3/6/61367/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
