The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Governor of Glave, by Keith Laumer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Governor of Glave

Author: Keith Laumer

Release Date: February 20, 2020 [EBook #61459]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOVERNOR OF GLAVE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         THE GOVERNOR OF GLAVE

                            BY KEITH LAUMER

                   The revolution was over and peace
            restored--naturally Retief expected the worst!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, November 1963.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


                                   I

Retief turned back the gold-encrusted scarlet cuff of the mess jacket
of a First Secretary and Consul, gathered in the three eight-sided
black dice, shook them by his right ear and sent them rattling across
the floor to rebound from the bulk-head.

"Thirteen's the point," the Power Section Chief called. "Ten he makes
it!"

"Oh ... Mr. Retief," a strained voice called. Retief looked up. A tall
thin youth in the black-trimmed gray of a Third Secretary flapped a
sheet of paper from the edge of the circle surrounding the game. "The
Ambassador's compliments, sir, and will you join him and the staff in
the conference room at once?"

Retief rose and dusted his knees. "That's all for now, boys," he said.
"I'll take the rest of your money later." He followed the junior
diplomat from the ward room, along the bare corridors of the crew
level, past the glare panel reading NOTICE--FIRST CLASS ONLY BEYOND
THIS POINT, through the chandeliered and draped ballroom and along a
stretch of soundless carpet to a heavy door bearing a placard with the
legend CONFERENCE IN SESSION.

"Ambassador Sternwheeler seemed quite upset, Mr. Retief," the messenger
said.

"He usually is, Pete." Retief took a cigar from his breast pocket. "Got
a light?"

The Third Secretary produced a permatch. "I don't know why you smoke
those things instead of dope sticks, Mr. Retief," he said. "The
Ambassador hates the smell."

Retief nodded. "I only smoke this kind at conferences. It makes for
shorter sessions." He stepped into the room. Ambassador Sternwheeler
eyed him down the length of the conference table.

"Ah, Mr. Retief honors us with his presence. Do be seated, Retief." He
fingered a yellow Departmental despatch. Retief took a chair, puffing
out a dense cloud of smoke.

"As I have been explaining to the remainder of my staff for the past
quarter-hour," Sternwheeler rumbled, "I've been the recipient of
important intelligence." He blinked at Retief expectantly. Retief
raised his eyebrows in polite inquiry.

"It seems," Sternwheeler went on, "that there has been a change in
regime on Glave. A week ago, the government which invited the dispatch
of this mission--and to which we're accredited--was overthrown.
The former ruling class has fled into exile. A popular workers' and
peasants' junta has taken over."

"Mr. Ambassador," Counsellor Magnan broke in, rising. "I'd like to be
the first--" he glanced around the table--"or one of the first, anyway,
to welcome the new government of Glave into the family of planetary
ruling bodies--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sit down, Magnan!" Sternwheeler snapped. "Of course the Corps always
recognizes _de facto_ sovereignty. The problem is merely one of
acquainting ourselves with the policies of this new group--a sort of
blue-collar coalition, it seems. In what position that leaves this
Embassy I don't yet know."

"I suppose this means we'll spend the next month in a parking orbit,"
Counsellor Magnan sighed.

"Unfortunately," Sternwheeler went on, "the entire affair has
apparently been carried off without recourse to violence, leaving the
Corps no excuse to move in--that is, it appears our assistance in
restoring order will not be required."

"Glave was one of the old Contract Worlds," Retief said. "What's become
of the Planetary Manager General and the technical staff? And how do
the peasants and workers plan to operate the atmospheric purification
system, the Weather Control station, the tide regulation complexes?"

"I'm more concerned at present with the status of the Mission! Will we
be welcomed by these peasants or peppered with buckshot?"

"You say that this is a popular junta, and that the former leaders have
fled into exile," Retief said. "May I ask the source?"

"The despatch cites a 'reliable Glavian source'."

"That's officialese for something cribbed from a broadcast news
tape. Presumably the Glavian news services are in the hands of the
revolution. In that case--"

"Yes, yes, there is the possibility that the issue is yet in doubt.
Of course we'll have to exercise caution in making our approach. It
wouldn't do to make overtures to the wrong side."

"Oh, I think we need have no fear on that score," the Chief of the
Political Section spoke up. "I know these entrenched cliques. Once
challenged by an aroused populace, they scuttle for safety--with large
balances safely tucked away in neutral banks."

"I'd like to go on record," Magnan piped, "as registering my deep
gratification at this fulfillment of popular aspirations--"

"The most popular aspiration I know of is to live high off someone
else's effort," Retief said. "I don't know of anyone outside the Corps
who's managed it."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Gentlemen!" Sternwheeler bellowed. "I'm awaiting your constructive
suggestions--not an exchange of political views. We'll arrive off
Glave in less than six hours. I should like before that time to have
developed some notion regarding to whom I shall expect to offer my
credentials!"

There was a discreet tap at the door; it opened and the young Third
Secretary poked his head in.

"Mr. Ambassador, I have a reply to your message--just received from
Glave. It's signed by the Steward of the GFE, and I thought you'd want
to see it at once...."

"Yes, of course; let me have it."

"What's the GFE?" someone asked.

"It's the revolutionary group," the messenger said, passing the message
over.

"GFE? GFE? What do the letters SIGNIFY?"

"Glorious Fun Eternally," Retief suggested. "Or possibly Goodies For
Everybody."

"I believe that's 'Glavian Free Electorate'," the Third Secretary said.

Sternwheeler stared at the paper, lips pursed. His face grew pink. He
slammed the paper on the table.

"Well, gentlemen! It appears our worst fears have been realized!
This is nothing less than a warning! A threat! We're advised to
divert course and bypass Glave entirely. It seems the GFE wants no
interference from meddling foreign exploiters, as they put it!"

Magnan rose. "If you'll excuse me Mr. Ambassador, I want to get off a
message to Sector HQ to hold my old job for me--"

"Sit down, you idiot!" Sternwheeler roared. "If you think I'm
consenting to have my career blighted--my first Ambassadorial post
whisked out from under me--the Corps made a fool of--"

"I'd like to take a look at that message," Retief said. It was passed
along to him. He read it.

"I don't believe this applies to us, Mr. Ambassador."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What are you talking about? It's addressed to me by name!"

"It merely states that 'meddling foreign exploiters' are unwelcome.
Meddling foreigners we are, but we don't qualify as exploiters unless
we show a profit--and this appears to be shaping up as a particularly
profitless venture."

"What are you proposing, Mr. Retief?"

"That we proceed to make planetfall as scheduled, greet our welcoming
committee with wide diplomatic smiles, hint at largesse in the offing
and settle down to observe the lie of the land."

"Just what I was about to suggest," Magnan said.

"That might be dangerous," Sternwheeler said.

"That's why I didn't suggest it," Magnan said.

"Still it's essential that we learn more of the situation than can be
gleaned from official broadcasts," Sternwheeler mused. "Now, while I
can't justify risking the entire Mission, it might be advisable to
dispatch a delegation to sound out the new regime."

"I'd like to volunteer," Magnan said, rising.

"Of course, the delegates may be murdered--"

"--but unfortunately, I'm under treatment at the moment." Magnan sat
down.

"--which will place us in an excellent position, propaganda-wise.

"What a pity I can't go," the Military Attache said. "But my place is
with my troops."

"The only troops you've got are the Assistant Attache and your
secretary," Magnan pointed out.

"Say, I'd like to be down there in the thick of things," the Political
Officer said. He assumed a grave expression. "But of course I'll be
needed here, to interpret results."

"I appreciate your attitude, gentlemen," Sternwheeler said, studying
the ceiling. "But I'm afraid I must limit the privilege of volunteering
for this hazardous duty to those officers of more robust physique,
under forty years of age--"

"Tsk. I'm forty-one," Magnan said.

"--and with a reputation for adaptability." His glance moved along the
table.

"Do you mind if I run along now, Mr. Ambassador?" Retief said. "It's
time for my insulin shot."

Sternwheeler's mouth dropped open.

"Just kidding," Retief said. "I'll go. But I have one request, Mr.
Ambassador: no further communication with the ground until I give the
all-clear."


                                  II

Retief grounded the lighter, in-cycled the lock and stepped out. The
hot yellow Glavian sun beat down on a broad expanse of concrete, an
abandoned service cart and a row of tall ships casting black shadows
toward the silent control tower. A wisp of smoke curled up from the
shed area at the rim of the field. There was no other sign of life.

Retief walked over to the cart, tossed his valise aboard, climbed
into the driver's seat and headed for the operations building. Beyond
the port, hills rose, white buildings gleaming against the deep green
slopes. Near the ridge, a vehicle moved ant-like along a winding road,
a dust trail rising behind it. Faintly a distant shot sounded.

Papers littered the ground before the Operations Building. Retief
pushed open the tall glass door, stood listening. Slanting sunlight
reflected from a wide polished floor, at the far side of which
illuminated lettering over empty counters read IMMIGRATION, HEALTH
and CUSTOMS. He crossed to the desk, put the valise down, then leaned
across the counter. A worried face under an oversized white cap looked
up at him.

"You can come out now," Retief said. "They've gone."

The man rose, dusting himself off. He looked over Retief's shoulder.
"Who's gone?"

"Whoever it was that scared you."

"Whatta ya mean? I was looking for my pencil."

"Here it is." Retief plucked a worn stub from the pocket of the soiled
shirt sagging under the weight of braided shoulderboards. "You can sign
me in as a Diplomatic Representative. A break for you--no formalities
necessary. Where can I catch a cab for the city?"

The man eyed Retief's bag. "What's in that?"

"Personal belongings under duty-free entry."

"Guns?"

"No, thanks, just a cab."

"You got no gun?" The man raised his voice.

"That's right, fellows," Retief called out. "No gun; no knife, not
even a small fission bomb. Just a few pairs of socks and some reading
matter."

A brown-uniformed man ran from behind the Customs Counter, holding a
long-barreled blast-rifle centered on the Corps insignia stitched to
the pocket of Retief's powder-blue blazer.

"Don't try nothing," he said. "You're under arrest."

"It can't be overtime parking. I've only been here five minutes."

"Hah!" The gun-handler moved out from the counter, came up to Retief.
"Empty out your pockets!" he barked. "Hands overhead!"

"I'm just a diplomat, not a contortionist," Retief said, not moving.
"Do you mind pointing that thing in some other direction?"

"Looky here, Mister, I'll give the orders. We don't need anybody
telling us how to run our business."

"I'm telling you to shift that blaster before I take it away from you
and wrap it around your neck," Retief said conversationally. The cop
stepped back uncertainly, lowering the gun.

"Jake! Horny! Pud! come on out!"

Three more brown uniforms emerged from concealment.

"Who are you fellows hiding from, the top sergeant?" Retief glanced
over the ill-fitting uniforms, the unshaved faces, the scuffed boots.
"Tell you what. When he shows up, I'll engage him in conversation. You
beat it back to the barracks and grab a quick bath--"

"That's enough smart talk." The biggest of the three newcomers moved
up to Retief. "You stuck your nose in at the wrong time. We just had a
change of management around here."

"I heard about it," Retief said. "Who do I complain to?"

"Complain? What about?"

"The port's a mess," Retief barked. "Nobody on duty to receive official
visitors! No passenger service facilities! Why, do you know I had to
carry my own bag--"

"All right, all right, that's outside my department. You better see the
boss."

"The boss? I thought you got rid of the bosses."

"We did, but now we got new ones."

"They any better than the old ones?"

"This guy asks too many questions," the man with the gun said. "Let's
let Sozier answer 'em."

"Who's he?"

"He's the Military Governor of the City."

"Now we're getting somewhere," Retief said. "Lead the way, Jake--and
don't forget my bag."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sozier was a small man with thin hair oiled across a shiny scalp,
prominent ears and eyes like coal chips set in rolls of fat. He
glowered at Retief from behind a polished desk occupying the center of
a spacious office.

"I warned you off," he snapped. "You came anyway." He leaned forward
and slammed a fist down on the desk. "You're used to throwing your
weight around, but you won't throw it around here! There'll be no spies
pussyfooting around Glave!"

"Looking for what, Mr. Sozier?"

"Call me General!"

"Mind if I sit down?" Retief pulled out a chair, seated himself and
took out a cigar. "Curiously enough," he said, lighting up, "the Corps
has no intention of making any embarrassing investigations. We deal
with the existing government, no questions asked." His eyes held the
other's. "Unless, of course, there are evidences of atrocities or other
illegal measures."

The coal-chip eyes narrowed. "I don't have to make explanations to you
or anybody else."

"Except, presumably, the Glavian Free Electorate," Retief said blandly.
"But tell me, General--who's actually running the show?"

A speaker on the desk buzzed. "Hey, Corporal Sozier! Wes's got them two
hellions cornered. They're holed up in the Birthday Cake--"

"General Sozier, damn you! and plaster your big mouth shut!" He
gestured to one of the uniformed men standing by.

"You! Get Trundy and Little Moe up here--pronto!" He swiveled back to
Retief. "You're in luck. I'm too busy right now to bother with you.
You get back over to the port and leave the same way you came--and tell
your blood-sucking friends the easy pickings are over as far as Glave's
concerned. You won't lounge around here living high and throwing big
parties and cooking up your dirty deals to get fat on at the expense of
the working man."

Retief dribbled ash on Sozier's desk and glanced at the green uniform
front bulging between silver buttons.

"Who paid for your potbelly, Sozier?" he inquired carelessly.

Sozier's eyes narrowed to slits. "I could have you shot!"

"Stop playing games with me, Sozier," Retief rapped. "There's a
squadron of Peace Enforcers standing by just in case any apprentice
statesmen forget the niceties of diplomatic usage. I suggest you start
showing a little intelligence about now, or even Horny and Pud are
likely to notice."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sozier's fingers squeaked on the arms of his chair. He swallowed.

"You might start by assigning me an escort for a conducted tour of
the capital," Retief went on. "I want to be in a position to confirm
that order has been re-established, and that normal services have been
restored. Otherwise it may be necessary to send in a Monitor Unit to
straighten things out."

"You know you can't meddle with the internal affairs of a sovereign
world!"

Retief sighed. "The trouble with taking over your boss's job is
discovering its drawbacks. It's disillusioning, I know, Sozier, but--"

"All right! Take your tour! You'll find everything running as smooth as
silk! Utilities, police, transport, environmental control--"

"What about Space Control? Glave Tower seems to be off the air."

"I shut it down. We don't need anything and we don't want anything from
the outside."

"Where's the new Premier keeping himself? Does he share your passion
for privacy?"

The general got to his feet. "I'm letting you take your look, Mr.
Big Nose. I'm giving you four hours. Then out! And the next meddling
bureaucrat that tries to cut atmosphere on Glave without a clearance
gets burned!"

"I'll need a car."

"Jake! You stick close to this bird. Take him to the main power plant,
the water works and the dispatch center. Ride him around town and show
him we're doing okay without a bunch of leeches bossing us. Then dump
him at the port--and see that he leaves."

"I'll plan my own itinerary, thanks. I can't promise I'll be finished
in four hours--but I'll keep you advised."

"I warned you--"

"I heard you. Five times. And I only warned you once. You're getting
ahead of me." Retief rose, motioned to the hulking guard. "Come on,
Jake. We've got a lot of ground to cover before we come back for our
dinner."


                                  III

At the curb, Retief held out his hand. "Give me the power cylinder out
of your rifle, Jake."

"Huh?"

"Come on, Jake. You've got a nervous habit of playing with the firing
stud. We don't want any accidents."

"How do you get it out? They only give me this thing yesterday."

Retief pocketed the cylinder. "You sit in back. I'll drive." He wheeled
the car off along a broad avenue crowded with vehicles and lined with
flowering palms, behind which stately white buildings reared up into
the pale sky.

"Nice looking city, Jake," Retief said conversationally. "What's the
population?"

"I dunno. I only been here a year."

"What about Horny and Pud? Are they natives?"

"Whatta ya mean, natives? They're just as civilized as me."

"My boner, Jake. Known Sozier long?"

"Sure. He useta come around to the club."

"I take it he was in the army under the old regime?"

"Yeah--but he didn't like the way they run it. Nothing but band playing
and fancy marching. There wasn't nobody to fight."

"Just between us, Jake--where did the former Planetary Manager General
go?" Retief watched Jake's heavy face in the mirror. Jake jumped,
clamped his mouth shut.

"I don't know nothing."

Half an hour later, after a tour of the commercial center, Retief
headed towards the city's outskirts. The avenue curved, leading up
along the flank of a low hill.

"I must admit I'm surprised, Jake," Retief said. "Everything seems
orderly. No signs of riots or panic. Power, water, communications
normal--just as the general said. Remarkable, isn't it, considering
that the entire managerial class has packed up and left?"

"You wanta see the Power Plant?" Retief could see perspiration beaded
on the man's forehead under the uniform cap.

"Sure. Which way?" With Jake directing, Retief ascended to the ridge
top, cruised past the blank white facade of the station.

"Quiet, isn't it?" Retief pulled the car in to the curb. "Let's go
inside."

"Huh? Corporal Sozier didn't say nothing--"

"You're right, Jake. That leaves it to our discretion."

"He won't like it."

"The corporal's a busy man, Jake. We won't worry him by telling him
about it."

Jake followed Retief up the walk. The broad double doors were locked.
"Let's try the back."

The narrow door set in the high blank wall opened as Retief approached.
A gun barrel poked out, followed by a small man with bushy red hair. He
looked Retief over.

"Who's this party, Jake?" he barked.

"Sozier said show him the plant," Jake said.

"What we need is more guys to pull duty, not tourists. Anyway, _I'm_
Chief Engineer here. Nobody comes in here 'less I like their looks."
Retief moved forward, stood looking down at the redhead. The little
man hesitated, then waved him past. "Lucky for you I like your looks."
Inside, Retief surveyed the long room, the giant converter units, the
massive busbars. Armed men--some in uniform, some in work clothes
or loud sport shirts--stood here and there. Other men read meters,
adjusted controls or inspected dials.

"You've got more guards than workers," Retief said. "Expecting trouble?"

The redhead bit the corner from a plug of spearmint. He glanced around
the plant. "Things is quiet now; but you never know."

"Rather old-fashioned equipment isn't it? When was it installed?"

"Huh? I dunno. What's wrong with it?"

"What's your basic power source, a core sink? Lithospheric friction?
Sub-crustal hydraulics?"

"Beats me, Mister. I'm the boss here, not a dern mechanic."

       *       *       *       *       *

A gray-haired man carrying a clipboard walked past, studied a panel,
made notes, glanced up to catch Retief's eye, moved on.

"Everything seems to be running normally," Retief remarked.

"Sure. Why not?"

"Records being kept up properly?"

"Sure. Some of these guys, all they do is walk around looking at dials
and writing stuff on paper. If it was me, I'd put 'em to work."

Retief strolled over to the gray-haired man, now scribbling before a
bank of meters. He glanced at the clipboard.

_Power off at sunset. Tell Corasol_ was scrawled in block letters
across the record sheet. Retief nodded, rejoined his guard.

"All right, Jake. Let's have a look at the communications center."

Back in the car, headed west, Retief studied the blank windows of
office buildings, the milling throngs in beer bars, shooting galleries,
tattoo parlors, billiard halls, pinball arcades, bordellos and
half-credit casinos.

"Everybody seems to be having fun," he remarked.

Jake stared out the window.

"Yeah."

"Too bad you're on duty, Jake. You could be out there joining in."

"Soon as the corporal gets things organized, I'm opening me up a place
to show dirty tri-di's. I'll get my share."

"Meanwhile, let the rest of 'em have their fun, eh Jake?"

"Look, Mister, I been thinking. Maybe you better gimme back that
kick-stick you taken outa my gun...."

"Sorry, Jake; no can do. Tell me, what was the real cause of the
revolution? Not enough to eat? Too much regimentation?"

"Naw, we always got plenty to eat. There wasn't none of that
regimentation up till I joined up in the corporal's army."

"Rigid class structure, maybe? Educational discrimination?"

Jake nodded. "Yeah, it was them schools done it. All the time trying
to make a feller do some kind of class. Big shots. Know it all. Gonna
make us sit around and view tapes. Figgered they was better than us."

"And Sozier's idea was you'd take over, and you wouldn't have to be
bothered."

"Aw, it wasn't Sozier's idea. He ain't the big leader."

"Where does the big leader keep himself?"

"I dunno. I guess he's pretty busy right now." Jake snickered. "Some of
them guys call themselves colonels turned out not to know nothing about
how to shoot off the guns."

"Shooting, eh? I thought it was a sort of peaceful revolution. The
managerial class were booted out, and that was that."

"I don't know nothing," Jake snapped. "How come you keep trying to get
me to say stuff I ain't supposed to talk about? You want to get me in
trouble?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, you're already in trouble, Jake. But if you stick with me, I'll
try to get you out of it. Where exactly did the refugees head for? How
did they leave? Must have been a lot of them; I'd say in a city of this
size alone, they'd run into the thousands."

"I don't know."

"Of course, it depends on your definition of a big shot. Who's included
in that category, Jake?"

"You know, the slick-talking ones; the fancy dressers; the guys that
walk around and tell other guys what to do. We do all the work and they
get all the big pay."

"I suppose that would cover scientists, professional men, executives,
technicians of all sorts, engineers, teachers--all that crowd."

"Yeah, them are the ones."

"And once you got them out of the way, the regular fellows would have a
chance. Chaps that don't spend all their time taking baths and reading
books and using big words; good Joes that don't mind picking their
noses in public."

"We got as much right as anybody--"

"Jake, who's Corasol?"

"He's--I don't know."

"I thought I overheard his name somewhere."

"Uh, here's the communication center," Jake cut in.

Retief swung into a parking lot under a high blank facade. He set the
brake and stepped out.

"Lead the way, Jake."

"Look, Mister, the corporal only wanted me to show you the outside."

"Anything to hide, Jake?"

Jake shook his head angrily and stamped past Retief. "When I joined up
with Sozier, I didn't figger I'd be getting in this kind of mess."

"I know, Jake. It's tough. Sometimes it seems like a fellow works
harder after he's thrown out the parasites than he did before."

A cautious guard let Retief and Jake inside, followed them along
bright-lit aisles among consoles, cables, batteries of instruments.
Armed men in careless uniforms lounged, watching. Here and there a
silent technician worked quietly.

Retief paused by one, an elderly man in a neat white coverall, with a
purple spot under one eye.

"Quite a bruise you've got there," Retief commented heartily. "Power
failure at sunset," he added softly. The technician hesitated, nodded
and moved on.

Back in the car, Retief gave Jake directions. At the end of three
hours, he had seen twelve smooth-running, heavily guarded installations.

"So far, so good, Jake," he said. "Next stop, Sub-station Number Nine."
In the mirror, Jake's face stiffened. "Hey, you can't go down there--"

"Something going on there, Jake?"

"That's where--I mean, no. I don't know."

"I don't want to miss anything, Jake. Which way?"

"I ain't going down there," Jake said sullenly.

Retief braked. "In that case, I'm afraid our association is at an end,
Jake."

"You mean ... you're getting out here?"

"No, you are."

"Huh? Now wait a minute, Mister! The corporal said I was to stay with
you."

Retief accelerated. "That's settled, then. Which way?"


                                  IV

Retief pulled the car to a halt two hundred yards from the periphery
of a loose crowd of brown-uniformed men who stood in groups scattered
across a broad plaza, overflowing into a stretch of manicured lawn
before the bare, functional facade of sub-station number Nine. In the
midst of the besieging mob, Sozier's red face and bald head bobbed as
he harangued a cluster of green-uniformed men from his place in the
rear of a long open car.

"What's it all about, Jake?" Retief enquired. "Since the parasites have
all left peacefully, I'm having a hard time figuring out who'd be holed
up in the pumping station--and why. Maybe they haven't gotten the word
that it's all going to be fun and games from now on."

"If the corporal sees you over here--"

"Ah, the good corporal. Glad you mentioned him, Jake. He's the man to
see." Retief stepped out of the car and started through the crowd. A
heavy lorry loaded with an immense tank with the letter H blazoned on
its side trundled into the square from a side street, moved up to a
position before the building. A smaller car pulled alongside Sozier's
limousine. The driver stepped down, handed something to Sozier. A
moment later, Sozier's amplified voice boomed across the crowd.

"You in there, Corasol! This is General Sozier, and I'm warning you to
come out now or you and your smart friends are in for a big surprise.
You think I won't blast you out because I don't want to wreck the
planet. You see the tank aboard the lorry that just pulled up? It's
full of gas--and I got plenty of hoses out here to pump it inside with.
I'll put men on the roof and squirt it in the ventilators."

Sozier's voice echoed and died. The militiamen eyed the station.
Nothing happened.

"I know you can hear me, damn you!" Sozier squalled. "You'd better get
the doors open and get out here fast!"

Retief stepped to Sozier's side. "Say, Corporal, I didn't know you went
in for practical jokes."

Sozier jerked around to gape at Retief.

"What are you doing here!" he burst out. "I told Jake--where is that--"

"Jake didn't like the questions I was asking," Retief said, "so he
marched me up here to report to you."

"Jake, you damn fool!" Sozier roared. "I got a good mind--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I disagree, Sozier," Retief cut in. "I think you're a complete
imbecile. Sitting out here in the open yelling at the top of your
lungs, for example. Corasol and his party might get annoyed and spray
that fancy car you've swiped with something a lot more painful than
words."

"Eh?" Sozier's head whipped around to stare at the building.

"Isn't that a gun I see sticking out?"

Sozier dropped. "Where?"

"My mistake. Just a foreign particle on my contact lenses." Retief
leaned on the car. "On the other hand, Sozier, most murderers are
sneaky about it. I think making a public announcement is a nice gesture
on your part. The Monitors won't have any trouble deciding who to hang
when they come in to straighten out this mess."

Sozier scrambled back onto his seat. "Monitors?" he snarled. "I
don't think so. I don't think you'll be around to do any blabbering
to anybody." He raised his voice. "Jake! March this spy over to the
sidelines. If he tries anything, shoot him!" He gave Retief a baleful
grin. "I'll lay the body out nice and ship it back to your cronies.
Accidents will happen, you know. It'll be a week or two before they get
around to following up--and by then I'll have this little problem under
control."

Jake looked at Retief uncertainly, fingering his empty rifle.

Retief put his hands up. "I guess you got me, Jake," he said. "Careful
of that gun, now."

Jake glanced at Sozier, gulped, aimed the rifle at Retief and nodded
toward the car. As Retief moved off, a murmur swept across the crowd.
Retief glanced back. A turret on the station roof was rotating slowly.
A shout rose; men surged away from the building, scuffling for way;
Sozier yelled. His car started up, moved forward, horns blaring. As
Retief watched, a white stream arced up from the turret, catching the
sun as it spanned the lawn, plunged down to strike the massed men in a
splatter of spray. It searched across the mob, came to rest on Sozier's
car. Uniformed men scrambled for safety as the terrified driver gunned
the heavy vehicle. The hose followed the car, dropping a solid stream
of water on Sozier, kicking and flailing in the back seat. As the car
passed from view, down a side street, water was overflowing the sides.

"The corporal will feel all the better for an invigorating swim in
his mobile pool," Retief commented. "By the way, Jake, I have to be
going now. It wouldn't be fair to send you back to your boss without
something to back up your story that you were outnumbered, so--"

Retief's left fist shot out to connect solidly with Jake's jaw. Jake
dropped the gun and sat down hard. Retief turned and headed for the
pumping station. The hose had shut down now. A few men were standing,
eyeing the building anxiously. Others watched his progress across the
square. As Retief passed, he caught scattered comments:

"--seen that bird before."

"--where he's headed."

"--feller Sozier was talking to...."

"Hey, you!"

Retief was on the grass now. Ahead, the blank wall loomed up. He walked
on briskly.

"Stop that jasper!" a shout rang out. There was a sharp whine and a
black spot appeared on the wall ahead. Near it, a small personnel door
abruptly swung inward. Retief sprinted, plunged through the opening
as a second shot seared the paint on the doorframe. The door clanged
behind him. Retief glanced over the half dozen men confronting him.

"I'm Retief, CDT, acting Charge," he said. "Which of you gentlemen is
Manager-General Corasol?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Corasol was a tall, wide-shouldered man of fifty, with shrewd eyes, a
ready smile, capable-looking hands and an urbane manner. He and Retief
sat at a table at one side of the large room, under a maze of piping,
tanks and valves. Corasol poured amber fluid into square glass tumblers.

"We spotted you by the blazer," he said. "Baby blue and gold braid
stand out in a crowd."

Retief nodded. "The uniform has its uses," he agreed. He tried the
drink. "Say, what is this? It's not bad."

"Sugarweed rum. Made from a marine plant. We have plenty of ocean here
on Glave; there's only the one continent, you know, and it's useless
for agriculture."

"Weather?"

"That's part of it. Glave is moving into what would be a major
glaciation if it weren't for a rather elaborate climatic control
installation. Then there are the tides. Half the continent would be
inundated twice a year when our satellite is at aphelion; there's
a system of baffles, locks and deep-water pumps that maintain the
shore-line more or less constant. We still keep our cities well inland.
Then there are the oxygen generators, the atmosphere filtration
complex, vermin control and so on. Glave in its natural state is a
rather hostile world."

"I'm surprised that your mines can support it all."

"Oh, they don't." Corasol shook his head. "Two hundred years ago, when
the company first opened up Glave, it was economical enough. Quintite
was a precious mineral in those days. Synthetics have long since
taken over. Even fully automated, the mines barely support the public
services and welfare system."

"I seem to recall a reference in the Post Report to the effect that a
company petition to vacate its charter had been denied...."

Corasol nodded, smiling wryly. "The CDT seemed to feel that as long
as any of the world's residents desired to remain, the Company was
constrained to oblige them. The great majority departed long ago, of
course. Relocated to other operational areas. Only the untrainables,
living off welfare funds--and a skeleton staff of single men to operate
the technical installations--have stayed on."

"That explains the mechanics of the recent uprising," Retief said.

The bottle clinked against glasses for a second round. "What about the
good corporal?" Retief asked. "Assuming he's a strong swimmer, you
should be hearing from him soon."

Corasol glanced at his finger watch. "I imagine he'll be launching his
gas attack any minute."

"The prospect doesn't seem to bother you."

"Sozier is a clever enough chap in his own way," Corasol said. "But he
has a bad habit of leaping to conclusions. He's gotten hold of a tank
of what someone has told him is gas--as indeed it is. Hydrogen, for
industrial use. It seems the poor fellow is under the impression that
anything masquerading as gas will have a lethal effect."

"He may be right--if he pumps it in fast enough."

"Oh, he won't be pumping it. Not after approximately five minutes from
now."

"Hmmm. I think I'm beginning to see the light. 'Power off at sunset.'"

Corasol nodded. "I don't think he realizes somehow that all his
vehicles are operating off broadcast power."

"Still, he has a good-sized crowd of hopefuls with him. How do you plan
to get through them?"

"We don't. We go under. There's an extensive system of service ways
underlying the city; another detail which I believe has escaped the
corporal's notice."

"You'll be heading for the port?"

"Yes--eventually. First, we have a few small chores to see to. Sozier
has quite a number of our technical men working at gun point to keep
various services going."

Retief nodded. "It won't be easy breaking them out. I made a fast tour
of the city this afternoon. Locked doors, armed guards--"

"Oh, the locks are power-operated, too. Our fellows will know what to
do when the power fails. I think the sudden darkness will eliminate any
problem from the guards."

The lights flickered and died. The whine of the turbines was suddenly
noticeable, descending. Faint cries sounded from outside.

Corasol switched on a small portable lantern. "All ready, gentlemen?"
he called, rising. "Let's move out. We want to complete this operation
before dawn."

       *       *       *       *       *

Four hours later, Retief stood with Corasol in a low-ceilinged tunnel,
white-tiled, brilliantly lit by a central glare strip, watching as the
last of the column of men released from forced labor in the city's
utilities installations filed past. A solidly-built man with pale blond
hair came up, breathing hard.

"How did it go, Taine?" Corasol asked.

"They're beginning to catch on, Mr. Corasol. We had a brisk time of it
at Station Four. Everybody's clear now. No one killed, but we had a few
injuries."

Corasol nodded. "The last few crews in have reported trouble. Ah--what
about--"

Taine shook his head. "Sorry, sir. No trace. No one's seen them. But
they're probably at the port ahead of us, hiding out. They'd know we'd
arrive eventually."

"I suppose so. You sent word to them well in advance...."

"Suppose I stand by here with a few men. We'll patrol the tunnels in
case they show up. We have several hours before daylight."

"Yes. I'll go along and see to the preparations at Exit Ten. We'll make
our sortie at oh-five-hundred. If you haven't seen anything of them by
then...."

"I'm sure they're all right."

"They'd better be." Corasol said grimly "Let's be off, Retief."

"If it's all the same to you, Mr. Manager-General, I'll stay here with
Taine. I'll join you later."

"As you wish. I don't imagine there'll be any trouble--but if there is,
having a CDT observer along will lend a certain air to the operation."
He smiled, shook Retief's hand and moved off along the tunnel. The
echo of feet and voices grew faint, faded to silence. Taine turned to
the three men detailed to him, conversed briefly, sent them off along
branching corridors. He glanced at Retief.

"Mr. Retief, you're a diplomat. This errand is not a diplomatic one."

"I've been on a few like that, too, Mr. Taine."

Taine studied Retief's face. "I can believe that," he said. "However, I
think you'd better rejoin the main party."

"I might be of some use here, if your missing men arrive under fire."

"Missing men?" Taine's mouth twisted in a sour smile. "You fail to
grasp the picture, Mr. Retief. There'll be no missing men arriving."

"Oh? I understood you were waiting here to meet them."

"Not men, Mr. Retief. It happens that Corasol has twin daughters, aged
nineteen. They haven't been seen since the trouble began."


                                   V

Half an hour passed. Retief leaned against the tunnel wall, arms
folded, smoking a cigar in silence. Taine paced, ten yards up the
corridor, ten yards back....

"You seem nervous, Mr. Taine," Retief said.

Taine stopped pacing, eyed Retief coldly. "You'd better go along now,"
he said decisively. "Just follow the main tunnel. It's about a mile."

"Plenty of time yet, Mr. Taine." Retief smiled and drew on his cigar.
"Your three men are still out."

"They won't be back here. We'll rendezvous at Exit Ten."

"Am I keeping you from something, Taine?"

"I can't be responsible for your safety if you stay here."

"Oh? You think I might fall victim to an accident?"

Taine narrowed his eyes. "It could happen," he said harshly.

"Where were the girls last seen?" Retief asked suddenly.

"How would I know?"

"Weren't you the one who got word to them?"

"Maybe you'd better keep out of this."

"You sent your men off; now you're eager to see me retire to a safe
position. Why the desire for solitude, Taine? You wouldn't by any
chance have plans?"

"That's enough," Taine snapped. "On your way. That's an order!"

"There are some aspects of this situation that puzzle me, Mr.
Taine. Mr. Corasol has explained to me how he and his Division
Chiefs--including you--were surprised in the executive suite at
Planetary Central by a crowd of Sozier's bully-boys. They came in past
the entire security system without an alarm. Corasol and the others put
up a surprisingly good fight and made it to the service elevators--and
from there to the sub-station. There was even time to order an
emergency alert to the entire staff--but somehow, they were all caught
at their stations and kept on the job at gun point. Now, I should think
that you, as Chief of Security as well as Communications, should have
some ideas as to how all this came about."

"Are you implying--"

"Let me guess, Taine. You have a deal with Sozier. He takes over,
ousts the legal owners, and sets himself up to live off the fat of the
land, with you as his technical chief. Then, I imagine, you'd find it
easy enough to dispose of Sozier--and you'd be in charge."

       *       *       *       *       *

Without warning Taine put his head down and charged. Retief dropped
his cigar, side-stepped and planted a solid right on Taine's jaw. He
staggered, went to his hands and knees.

"I suppose you'd like to get word to Sozier that his work force is
arriving at the port at oh-five-hundred," Retief said. "Of course,
he'll want to have a good-sized reception committee on hand as they
come out."

Taine plunged to his feet, threw a vicious left that went past Retief's
ear, then abruptly dropped, clamped a lock on Retief's leg, twisted--

The two men rolled, came to rest with Taine on top, Retief face-down,
his arm bent back and doubled. Taine, red-faced and puffing, grunted as
he applied pressure.

"You know a lot about me," he grated, "but you overlooked the fact that
I've been Glavian Judo champion for the past nine years."

"You're a clever man, Taine," Retief said between clenched teeth. "Too
clever to think it will work."

"It will work. Glave's never had a CDT mission here before. We're too
small. Corasol invited your Embassy in because he had an idea there
was something in the wind. That forced my hand. I've had to move
hastily. But by the time I invite observers in to see for themselves,
everything will be running smoothly. I can even afford to let Corasol
and the others go--I'll have hostages for his good behavior."

"You've been wanting to boast about it to someone who could appreciate
your cleverness, I see. Sozier must be an unappreciative audience."

"Sozier's a filthy pig--but he had his uses."

"What do you plan to do now?"

"I've been wondering that myself--but I think the best solution is to
simply break your arm for now. You should be easy to control then. It's
quite simple. I merely apply pressure, thus...."

"Judo is a very useful technique," Retief said. "But in order to make
it work, you have to be a pretty good man...." He moved suddenly,
shifting his position. Taine grabbed, holding Retief's arm by the wrist
and elbow, his own arm levering Retief's back, back.... Retief twisted
onto his side, then his back. Taine grunted, following the movement,
straining. Slowly, Retief sat up against Taine's weight. Then, with a
surge, he straightened his arm. Taine's grip broke. Retief came to his
feet. Taine scrambled up in time to meet a clean uppercut that snapped
him onto his back--out cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ah, there you are," Retief said as Taine's eyes fluttered and opened.
"You've had a nice nap--almost fifteen minutes. Feeling better?"

Taine snarled, straining against the bonds on his wrists.

"Gold braid has its uses," Retief commented. "Now that you're back,
perhaps you can answer a question for me. What's the Birthday Cake?"

Taine spat. Retief went to stand over him.

"Time is growing short, Mr. Taine. It will be dawn in another two
hours. I can't afford the luxury of coaxing you."

"You won't get away with this."

Retief looked at the glowing end of his cigar. "This won't be subtle, I
agree--but it will work."

"You're bluffing."

Retief leaned closer. "In my place--would you hesitate?" he asked
softly.

Taine cursed, struggled to break free, eyes on the cigar.

"What kind of diplomat are you?" he snarled.

"The modern variety. Throat-cutting, thumb-screws, poison and stiletto
work were popular in Machiavelli's time; nowadays we go in more for the
administrative approach--but the cigar-end still has its role."

"Look, we can come to an agreement--"

"What's the Birthday Cake?" Retief snapped.

"I'm in a position to do a lot for you!"

"Last chance--"

"It's the official Residence of the Manager-General!" Taine screeched,
writhing away from the cigar.

"Where is it? Talk fast!"

"You'll never get close! There's a seven-foot wall and by this time the
grounds are swarming with Sozier's men."

"Nevertheless, I want to know where it is--and the information had
better be good. If I don't come back, you'll have a long wait."

Taine groaned. "All right. Put that damned cigar away. I'll tell you
what I can...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Retief stood in the shadow of a vine-grown wall, watching the relief
of the five-man guard detail at the main gate to the Residence
grounds. The bluish light of the Glavian satellite reflected from the
rain-pocked street, glinted from the leaves of a massive tree ten yards
from the gate. The chill in the air cut through Retief's wet clothes.
The men at the gate huddled, hands in pockets, coat collars turned up,
backs to the wind--and to Retief. He moved silently forward, caught a
low branch of the tree, pulled himself up.

The men at the gate exchanged muttered remarks. One lit a cigarette.
Retief waited, then moved higher. The guards talked in low voices,
edged closer to the shelter of the gate-house. Retief lowered himself
onto the wall, dropped down onto the sodden lawn, crouched, waiting.
There was no alarm.

Through the trees the dark shape of the house loomed up, its top storey
defiantly ablaze with lights. Retief moved off silently, from the
shadow of one tree to the next, swinging in an arc that would bring
him to the rear of the great round structure. He froze as the heavy
footfalls of one of Sozier's pickets slogged past five yards from him,
then moved on. The glow of a campfire flickered near the front of the
house. Retief could make out the shapes of men around it--a dozen or
two, at least. Probably as many more warmed themselves at each of the
other fires visible on the grounds--and most of the rest had doubtless
found dryer shelter in the lee of the house itself.

Retief reached the conservatory at the rear of the house, studied the
dark path leading to the broad terrace, picked out the squat shape of
the utilities manifold behind a screen of shrubbery. So far, Taine's
information had been accurate. The next step was to--

There was a faint sound from high above, followed by a whoosh! Then
with a sharp crack! a flare appeared overhead, rocking gracefully,
floating down gently under a small parachute. Below it, inky shadows
rocked in unison.

In the raw white light, Retief counted eighteen men clinging to
handholds on the side of the house, immobile in the pitiless glare.
Above them, a face appeared, then a second, peering over the edge of
the fourth-storey gallery. Both figures rose, unlimbering four-foot
bows, fitting arrows to strings--

_Whok! Whok!_ Two men lost their holds and fell, yelling, to slam into
the heavy shrubbery. A second flight of arrows found marks. Retief
watched from the shadows as man after man dropped to flounder in the
wet foliage. Several jumped before the deadly bows were turned on
them. As the flare faded, the last of the men plunged down to crash
among their fellows. Retief stepped out, ran swiftly to the manifold,
forcing his way among the close-growing screen, scrambled to its top.
His hand fell on a spent arrow. He picked it up.

It was a stout wooden shaft twenty inches long, terminating in a rubber
suction cup. Retief snorted, dropped the arrow and started up.


                                  VI

Twenty feet above ground level, the wide windows of the third floor
sun terrace presented a precarious handhold as Retief swung back a
foot and kicked in a panel. Inside, he dimly made out the shape of a
broad carpeted room, curving out of sight in both directions. There
were wide-leaved tropical plants in boxes, groups of padded chairs,
low tables with bowls of fruit. Retief made his way past them, found
an inner door, went into a dark hall. At the far end, voices exchanged
shouted questions. Feet pounded. A flicker of light from a hand lantern
splashed across the wall, disappeared. Retief found a stair, went up
it noiselessly. According to Taine, the elevator to the top floor
apartment should be to the left--

Retief flattened himself to the wall. Footsteps sounded near at hand.
He moved quickly to a doorway. There was a murmur of voices, the
wavering light of lanterns. A party of uniformed men tiptoed past a
cross corridor, struggling under the weight of a massive log two feet
in diameter and twelve feet long.

"... on signal, hit it all together. Then ..." someone was saying.

Retief waited, listening. There was the creak of a door, the fumbling
of awkwardly laden feet on a stair, hoarse breathing, a muffled curse.

"... got my fingers, you slob!" a voice snarled.

"Shaddup!" another voice hissed.

There was a long moment of silence, then a muffled command--followed
an instant later by a thunderous crash, a shout--cut off abruptly by
a ponderous _blam!_ followed instantly by a roar like a burst dam,
mingled with yells, thumps, crashes. A foamy wash of water surged along
the cross corridor, followed a moment later by a man sliding on his
back, then another, two more, the log, fragments of a door, more men.

In the uproar, Retief moved along to the elevator, felt over the
control panel, located a small knurled button. He turned it. The panel
came away. He fumbled cautiously, found a toggle switch, flipped it. A
light sprang up in the car. Instantly Retief flipped the light switch;
the glow faded. He waited. No alarm. Men were picking themselves up,
shouting.

"... them broads dropped a hundred-gallon bag of water ..." Someone
complained.

"... up there fast, men. We got the door okay!"

Feet thumped. Yells sounded.

"No good, Wes! They got a safe or something in the way!"

Retief silently closed the lift door, pressed the button. With a sigh,
the car slid upward, came to a gentle stop. He eased the door open,
looked out into a dim-lit entrance hall. Footsteps sounded beyond a
door. He waited; the clack of high heels crossing a floor. Retief
stepped out of the car, went to the door, glanced into a spacious
lounge with rich furniture, deep rugs, paintings, a sweep of glass, and
in an alcove at the far side, a bar. Retief crossed the room, poured a
stiff drink into a paper-thin glass and drained it.

The high-heeled steps were coming back now. A door opened. Two leggy
young women in shorts, with red-gold hair bound back by ribbons--one
green, one blue--stepped into the room. One girl held a coil of
insulated wire; the other, a heavy-looking gray-enameled box eight
inches on a side.

"Now, see if you can tinker that generator to get a little more juice,
Lyn," the girl with the wire said. "I'll start stringing...."

Her voice died as she caught sight of Retief. He raised his glass. "My
compliments, ladies. I see you're keeping yourselves amused."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Who ... who are you?" Lyn faltered.

"My name's Retief. Your father sent me along to carry your bags. It's
lucky I arrived when I did, before any of those defenseless chaps
outside were seriously injured."

"You're not ... one of them?"

"Of course he's not, Lyn," the second girl said. "He's much too
good-looking."

"That's good," Lyn said crisply. "I didn't want to have to use this
thing." She tossed a bright-plated 2 mm needler onto a chair and sat
down. "Dad's all right, isn't he?"

"He's fine, and we've got to be going. Tight schedule, you know. And
you'd better get some clothes on. It's cold outside."

Lyn nodded. "Environmental Control went off the air six hours ago. You
can already feel snow coming."

"Don't you suppose we have time to just rig up one little old circuit?"
the other twin wheedled. "Nothing serious; just enough to tickle."

"We planned to wire all the window frames, the trunk we used to block
the stair, the lift shaft--"

"And then we thought we'd try to drop a loop down and pick up the
gallery guard rail, and maybe some of that wrought-iron work around the
front of the house--"

"Sorry, girls; no time."

Five minutes later, the twins were ready, wrapped in fur robes. Retief
had exchanged his soaked blazer for a down-lined weatherproof.

"The lift will take us all the way down, won't it?" he asked.

Lyn nodded. "We can go out through the wine cellar."

Retief picked up the needler and handed it to Lyn. "Hang on to this,"
he said. "You may need it yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

A cold wind whipped the ramp as dawn lightened the sky.

"It's hard to believe," Corasol said. "What made him do it?"

"He saw a chance to own it all."

"He can have it," Corasol's communicator beeped. He put it to his ear.
"Everything's ship-shape and ready to lift," a tiny voice said.

Corasol turned to Retief. "Let's go aboard."

"Hold it," Retief said. "There's someone coming."

Corasol spoke into the communicator. "Keep him covered."

The man slogging across the concrete was short, wrapped in heavy
garments. Over his head a white cloth fluttered from a stick.

"From the set of those bat-ears, I'd say it was the good corporal."

"I wonder what he wants."

Sozier stopped twenty feet from Retief and Corasol.

"I want to ... ah ... talk to you, Corasol," he said.

"Certainly, General. Go right ahead."

"Look here, Corasol. You can't do this. My men will freeze. We'll
starve. I've been thinking it over, and I've decided that we can reach
an understanding."

Corasol waited.

"I mean, we can get together on this thing. Compromise. Maybe I acted a
little hasty." Sozier looked from Corasol to Retief. "You're from the
CDT. You tell him. I'll guarantee his people full rights...."

Retief puffed at his cigar in silence. Sozier started again.

"Look, I'll give you a full voice in running things. A fifty-fifty
split. Whatta you say?"

"I'm afraid the proposal doesn't interest me, General," Corasol said.

"Never mind the General stuff," Sozier said desperately. "Listen, you
can run it. Just give me and my boys a little say-so."

"Sorry." Corasol shook his head. "Not interested, General."

"Okay, okay! You win! Just come on back and get things straightened
out! I got a belly full of running things!"

"I'm afraid I have other plans, General. For some time I've wanted
to transfer operations to a world called Las Palmas on which we hold
a charter. It has a naturally delightful climate, and I'm told the
fishing is good. I leave Glave to the Free Electorate with my blessing.
Good-by, General." He turned to the ship.

"You got to stay here!" Sozier howled. "We'll complain to the CDT! And
don't call me General! I'm a Corporal--"

"You're a General now--whether you like it or not." Corasol said
bluntly. He shivered. There was a hint of ice in the air. "If you or
any of your men ever decide to go to work, General, I daresay we can
train you for employment on Las Palmas. In the meantime--Long Live the
Revolution!"

"You can't do this! I'll sue!"

"Calm down, Sozier," Retief said. "Go back to town and see if you can
get your radio working. Put in a call for Mr. Magnan aboard the CDT
vessel. Tell him your troubles. It will make his day. And a word of
advice: Mr. Magnan hates a piker--so ask for plenty."

       *       *       *       *       *

"My boy, I'm delighted," Ambassador Sternwheeler boomed. "A highly
professional piece of work. A stirring testimonial to the value of the
skilled negotiator!"

"You're too kind, Mr. Ambassador." Retief said, glancing at his watch.

"And Magnan tells me that not only will the Mission be welcomed, and my
job secure for another year--that is, I shall have an opportunity to
serve--but a technical mission has been requested as well. I shall look
forward to meeting General Sozier. He sounds a most reasonable chap."

"Oh, you'll like him, Mr. Ambassador. A true democrat, willing to share
all you have."

Counsellor of Embassy Magnan tapped and entered the office.

"Forgive the intrusion, Mr. Ambassador," he said breathlessly, "but I
must--"

"Well, what is it, man? The deal hasn't gone sour?"

"Oh, far from it! I've been exploring General Sozier's economic
situation with him via scope, and it seems he'll require a loan."

"Yes, yes? How much?"

Magnan inhaled proudly. "Twenty. Million. Credits."

"No!"

"Yes!"

"Magnificent! Good lord, Magnan, you're a genius! This will mean
promotions all around. Why, the administrative load alone--"

"I can't wait to make planetfall, Mr. Ambassador. I'm all a-bubble
with plans. I hope they manage to get the docking facilities back in
operation soon."

"Help is on the way, my dear Magnan. I'm assured the Environmental
Control installations will be coming back in operation again within a
year or two."

"My, didn't those ice-caps form quickly. And in the open sea."

"Mere scum ice. As my Counsellor for Technical Affairs, you'll be in
charge of the ice-breaking operation once we're settled in. I imagine
you'll want to spend considerable time in the field. I'll be expecting
a record of how every credit is spent."

"I'm more the executive type," Magnan said. "Possibly Retief--"

A desk speaker hummed. "Mr. Corasol's lighter has arrived to ferry Mr.
Retief across to the Company ship...."

"Sorry you won't be with us, Retief," Sternwheeler said heartily. He
turned to Magnan. "Manager-General Corasol has extended Retief an
exequatur as Consul General to Las Palmas."

       *       *       *       *       *

Retief nodded. "Much as I'd like to be out in that open boat with you,
breaking ice, I'm afraid duty calls elsewhere."

"Your own post? I'm not sure he's experienced enough, Mr. Ambassador.
Now, I--"

"He was requested by name, Magnan. It seems the Manager-General's
children took a fancy to him."

"Eh? How curious. I never thought you were particularly interested in
infant care, Retief."

"Perhaps I haven't been, Mr. Magnan." Retief draped his short blue cape
over his left arm and turned to the door. "But remember the diplomat's
motto: be adaptable...."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Governor of Glave, by Keith Laumer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOVERNOR OF GLAVE ***

***** This file should be named 61459.txt or 61459.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/4/5/61459/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
