The Project Gutenberg EBook of Exiles of the Three Red Moons, by Carl Selwyn

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Exiles of the Three Red Moons

Author: Carl Selwyn

Release Date: April 4, 2020 [EBook #61752]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EXILES OF THE THREE RED MOONS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









EXILES OF THE THREE RED MOONS

By CARL SELWYN

Slowly, horribly, men died in that outer-space
Devil's Island. Carter already could feel the
slow-gnawing, Emerald Death. What had he to lose,
even on a crazy-wild, 100-to-1 shot Pluto prison-break?

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
Planet Stories Summer 1940.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Faint and distant, the sun fell swiftly behind the close horizon
and three warm moons of Pluto climbed from the jagged rocks. Their
pale, green light spread upon the rearing crags of dusty silica in a
scintillating blanket of emerald, and gleamed richly upon the patches
of white lichen.

As Rusty Carter strode down the winding trail from his cave, he gave
no thought to the prismatic scene. Even his analytical eyes, veteran
of ten years with the Tele-news, were not concerned. He had seen it in
daylight, when the freezing winds swept across the glaring monotony
of crystal sand, when men fought and killed for sheer sport, and when
the Bugs came. The cold horror of day paled the beauty of night. And
Rusty Carter was weary of both, after these Plutonian months. His heart
quickened as he remembered this was his last evening.

Rounding a bend, he approached the squat, transparent target building
gleaming above the restless crowd of men. They stood about in small
groups, talking noisily.

Rusty glanced at his watch. It was twenty revs before the monthly ship
was due. And this time it would not merely hover to drop drift-tubes
containing more doomed men and newsprints from a ruthless Y.M.P.A.
This time it would land--take him back to Earth. His heart sang at the
thought. Lord, but it would be good to have real soil underfoot again,
even the impassive pavement of New York!

As he pushed his way through the motley mob, Rusty's mind flashed far
across space to his desk in the great New York Tele-news plant. He
remembered Skipper Russell, his city editor, coming over, the twinkle
in his sagacious eyes as he told him to go out and rob a bank. Then
the eyes had changed to cool efficiency as he outlined his plan. Rusty
was to enter the Planetary National, armed with a vib-ray gun. He was
to menace the employees, then be trapped by pre-informed police. In
feigned terror, he was to turn the gun upon the crowd, fire. Actors had
been hired for the part. The vib-ray loaded with a harmless vibration,
they were to fall before him. He would be captured, and with the best
lawyers _against_ him, sent to Pluto for life. Stories about this dread
penal colony were dreadful, but mostly speculative. Forbidden entrance
by the Interplanetary Control, Tele-news agencies had few facts. A
first-hand story would be worth millions. It was Rusty's job to get it.

And here he was, the job done. The false arrest and its purpose was
known only to Skipper and himself. Even the actors whose "bodies" were
immediately claimed by their families, knew nothing of their work's
significance. After two months, the city editor would confess to the
hoax, pay whatever fine was imposed, and Rusty would be released--with
a priceless story.

The two months were over, and the story _was_ priceless. Dealing
intimately with the primitive simplicity of souls without hope and
their degenerate abandon of all that civilization had bestowed, his
tale would weave a pattern of remorse that such conditions should exist
anywhere in the universe. Pluto and its four moons were billions of
miles from home, anybody's home. Three of its satellites, of about
equal size and in close juxtaposition, were the planet's only source of
warmth for the sun of the life line planets was dim, far away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The flat emergency field was crowded with hulking forms from every
planet; talking, gesticulating excitedly, curious vultures awaiting the
new broken spirits, black-souled as themselves.

Rusty neared the low target building, saw his dim reflection in a
glassy wall; tall and thin despite the cumbersome furs. He had lost
weight, he observed. His bronzed seventy-five inches of slender,
handsome youth had shed the surplus flesh that he had accumulated in
Earthian cities. His body was now trimmed to bare muscle, sinews of
steel. One _fought_ to live here. One fought the cold, the Bugs, crazed
men--but the hopelessness of the struggle could not be fought, and one
died and was glad to die. One of their number in every other respect,
Rusty had _hope_--and he had been forced to keep this thought ever
before him as the contagion of omnipresent despair clutched at him also.

He ran a long hand through his leonine hair; badly in need of cutting,
it swirled, dark sorrel, about his hawk-like features.

The huge Vulcanian, Lothar, approached. Massive head bent, he leaned
toward Rusty as he passed.

"We leave at noon," he muttered. "Meet at White Cliff, if you go!"

Familiarity had bred disinterest in the strange forms from other worlds
but the nearness of his departure gave new light to the things about
him. Lothar, the Vulcanian! Rusty looked at the great creature, and
thought of the excitement Vulcan's discovery had occasioned. In the
orbit of Mercury, behind the sun, making it ever invisible to Earth,
it was the first planet to be found by interstellar exploration.
Occurring long before Rusty was born, it was another Stanley-Livingston
affair in the annals of feature news. Of course, Vulcan's existence
had been calculated by its effect on Mercury's perihelion as early
as the nineteenth century by--what was his name?--Leverrier! Who had
been disproved by Einstein, twentieth century, who was himself later
disproved. Rusty smiled. Get the facts! Soon he would be back at the
old job again....

He watched Lothar's monstrous bulk shuffle away into the crowd;
suddenly he remembered the secret plan for escape that night. There
would be five of them: Lothar, two Martians, a Venusian and Spike.
Spike was from his own planet and his only friend here, if he might
be called that. The short, chunky Earthian owed his life to Rusty.
He had saved him from the Bugs a few days after his arrival, an
exploit unheard of here where everyone saw to his own brief existence.
But Spike had never forgotten. And when the little boat had been
constructed from salvaged drift-tubes, he had inveigled the others into
agreeing to take Rusty along.

Rusty Carter felt a twinge of conscience at not confiding his now
propinquent departure. He had tactfully avoided a direct refusal,
knowing if word of his pardon got around his life would be worthless.
A jealous horde would have made short work of him. The others didn't
matter; but, whatever heartless creature Spike was, Rusty hoped he got
away.

       *       *       *       *       *

There came a shout from the upturned faces of the grisly crowd and
Rusty saw a red dot, high in the dim sky. It was the jet-blast of the
coming ship. It was coming for him!

His heart leaped as he watched the crimson point grow, a line of flame,
a dazzling comet upon the tinted moon glow. The light lengthened and a
dark hulk appeared at its head. Then, with a roar, a burst of sparks,
the ship entered the Plutonian atmosphere, floated gently downward on
idling jets.

The crowd of wretches clamored, jostled one another. Rusty stood apart,
tingling with excitement. He planned his journey, his homecoming, with
a child-like joy. First he would radio Skipper. Then he would take
a long luxurious bath--he could feel the warm water now--then go to
sleep, with no nightmare of yellow insects crawling unseen toward him.
Then he would....

The ship lowered, drifted to a stop high above them. The smile slowly
left Rusty's face and his eyes widened.

Glistening in the dim light, the ship remained motionless. Three long
objects came into view, gliding slowly from its underside--drift-tubes.

Rusty started forward, eyes fixed to the shining hull, panic leaping
into his heart.

In a burst of flame, the ship zoomed upward. There was a faint tingle
of ozone in the air, as it ascended, grew smaller in the glowing sky.

Rusty wanted to scream at the disappearing light. He leaned weakly
against the wall and a sickness within him was cold and numb, a
deadening blow. Then he grinned faintly. Of course! They were sending a
special plane--maybe Skipper was coming himself. Of course.

The drift-tubes had landed and the crowd was gathered about them,
encircling the newcomers, shouting questions about the outside worlds,
inspecting the less formidable for chance possessions. Rusty pushed his
way through the mass of foul bodies. At the edge of the group was a
smaller, unopened tube--the Tele-news can.

Rusty opened the container, pulled out the roll of thin, printed
sheets. It was like Skipper to send a special plane. Sure he
would--this was a big story.

Idly glancing through the pages, weeks old, he was surprised to catch
the familiar name. Then Rusty tensed, color gone from his face, as the
full meaning of the headline came to him.

    "PROMINENT EDITOR PASSES: S. K. Russell, Editor of the New York
    Tele-news for over thirty years, died at his home today, the victim
    of a heart attack. Russell, called 'Skipper' by all that knew him,
    was stricken--"

Rusty dropped the page from his hand. He stared, unseeing, into
the night, his mind following a torturing logic to its inescapable
conclusion. Skipper was dead--Skipper was the only one that knew--no
one else would know of his innocence....

He snatched up the paper, read the column, his warrant of doom. Skipper
had died three weeks ago, suddenly, before he could even make a will.
His wife was sole heir to the Tele-news plant.

Rusty sank down to a rock.

A sense of wild terror gripped him as he realized he was trapped here,
for the rest of his life--he had been legally convicted of robbery,
murder. Skipper was the only person who could save him. But Skipper was
dead!

Men howled, laughed as they passed him. And Rusty Carter knew he was
now one of them. No more was there the glow of a secret thought, that
soon he could leave--he was to stay until he died just as these others
died, screaming or with a voiceless stare in the cold glare of Pluto.

Their laughter faded away and he was alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Walking aimlessly, Rusty left the deserted clearing, plodded up a
sparkling path. He wandered amid the ghastly spangled crags, neither
knowing nor caring where he went. It did not matter and nothing
mattered, for he was dead inside. The three moons of Pluto hung low
in the east and the enormous Great Moon, the nearby satellite of the
planet, arose beside their departing light, a darker green.

Soon, another day. The cold wind. The Bugs. Haunted, restless sleep.
The scream of a lonely soul in dreaming delirium. But what matter the
cold and the Bugs? They _could_ bring death. Was it not better so?

Rusty came to a long declivity, the rocks sloping down to a wide
crater. In the center was a pale wall of lichen, smoothly white on the
side of a towering peak. It was White Cliff. Largest landmark on the
narrow-horizoned planet, it reared for hundreds of feet into the thin
air. Upon its vast sides was a thick blanket of the plants, giving the
cliff an unbroken, white distinctiveness and its name. Never visited by
day because of the Bugs, it was rarely approached even at night. The
reflecting vegetation surrounding it in a dim glow, the Bugs lingered
even then. Foot-long obscenities of fuzzy yellow, razor-tipped tendrils
before formless maws, by day they swarmed from every crevice of the
distorted terrain. Subsisting chiefly upon the rabbit-like veedles,
they would also eat a man.

Rusty stared at the ghostly scene, suddenly remembering the words of
Lothar, the Vulcanian. Preferring the Bugs to curious eyes, it was here
that the drift-tubes had been stored, the escape ship built. Escape!
Why hadn't he thought of it before? As criminal as they now, he must
take a criminal's chance--the odds were all against their survival--a
swift death in the suffocating void of space, the sudden burn of a
patrol's flame-gun. But each was a feeble fear. Death here was slow,
gnawing for years at a weakening brain. Any chance was worth taking.

He glanced over his shoulder at the rising shape of the Great Moon, and
sped across the quartz dust to the cliff.

Rounding the rise, Rusty came upon a dark form in a little clearing. It
was the ship. Startled figures whirled as he burst upon them, relaxed
as he was recognized. The great bulk of Lothar was stark against the
dim light.

"Hello!" came a husky Earthian voice, and Rusty was relieved to see the
barrel shape of Spike appear, his mop of black hair haloed in the green
glow.

Rusty looked at the squat hull of the oddly constructed boat. The
others gathered around him.

"Crude but crafty," admired Spike.

Rusty glanced at the others. The tall Martians stood at the side,
slender silhouettes. The Vulcanian towered above him, long incisors
gleaming between drooping lips.

"I think you know the rest," said Spike. "Here's Fish."

Rusty noticed for the first time the frail form of a Venusian in the
shadows. He moved silently to Rusty, extended a finny hand in the
Earthian clasp adopted by the Universe.

Venusians were an eternal surprise to Rusty. Half the height of an
average man, limbs thin and tipped with prehensile spines, they were
covered with fish-like scales, a delicate lavender in color. A single
eye in the middle of the forehead, throughout the Universe they carried
optional misnomers, "Cyclops" or "Fish."

Rusty shook the cold hand and for a moment forgot his plight, as
he felt his usual presentiments. These weird creatures from the
cloud-hidden planet never failed to arouse unreasoning tingles of
distrust.

"When do we leave?" asked Rusty. He must have action. The thought of
his abandonment here would soon drive him raving mad.

"All ready," said Spike. "Waiting for the moon to get in position."

Lothar tapped Rusty on the shoulder, his huge, four-fingered hand
almost knocking him down.

"Make words," he boomed in his throat. "You go. Must be one with
us--steal moon ship--pirates."

"He means we head for the Great Moon, steal a plane there and see what
we can pick up in the Earthian traffic lanes," Spike translated. "It
took me a long time to persuade them that you were okey, so be nice!"

"Sure," said Rusty. He had barely heard the words. "Sure."

Lothar stared at him with his slanting, narrow eyes. He finally nodded,
moved away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The little ship was crudely made, Rusty noticed, of cans in which the
prisoners had been dropped. It was held down by ropes stretching over
the hull. The thick, insulated drift-tubes were simple antigravitic
units of low power. With the engineering skill of the Martians, six
of these had been fixed together, forming a squat hull, blunt at one
end. Powered by fuel salvaged from countless near-dry tubes, it was
planned, he was told, to wait till the nearby satellite was directly
overhead, then release the ship, allowing it to drift upward. After a
few miles--with an over-load of fuel they would drift fast--they would
be caught by the pull of the larger planet, sucked into it. The gravity
of the Great Moon would overcome their diminished power and they would
drift down. There was, of course, no oxygen equipment and they would
doubtless lose consciousness. But it would be only a few moments in
space and they should revive in the dense atmosphere of the moon. It
was a chance they would have to take.

Creeping comets! thought Rusty. Wouldn't he have a story if he ever
reached the Tele-news plant again! But would he ever see Earth again?

He felt little optimism when he looked up at the planet slowly swinging
toward them. Gigantic, almost as large as Pluto, its rugged land
and dark seas were quite visible across the few thousand miles. The
triplet-moons were dead, of their own radiations, but the Great Moon,
in a separate orbit, was eternally tropical. A regular transit to the
eccentric orbit of the warming spheres, it received a degree of heat
that Pluto's greater distance denied. Its atmosphere was thin, tinged
with ozone, but breatheable. It rotated slowly, a perceptible movement.
A smooth patch came into view upon its green surface and Rusty
remembered it was the only inhabitable portion of the planet. The rest
was insect-infested jungle, shallow oceans. If they waited till it was
overhead, they could not miss the moon. But they _must_ hit that little
spot upon its surface.

"We're waiting till the Plain comes around again," Spike answered
Rusty's thoughts. "Have to leave navigation to the Martians. They have
an uncanny sense of precision."

"What--" began Rusty.

He heard a slithering in the plants behind them.

They turned. Rusty saw three Bugs crawl into the dim light. Yellow
horrors, they moved swiftly. Sharp feelers waving, they advanced like
giant cockroaches. Others came behind them. They swarmed into the
clearing.

He turned to run. There was no fighting them. There was no running
away--Bugs poured from all sides. Lord! must he die now? When a chance
was so near? They were surrounded. He stood staring, the others behind
him, weaponless.

Rusty remembered one man he had seen after their work. He sickened
at the picture. Blood was what they smelled, what they sought. Those
feelers chopped at one's legs, severed the feet, hovered with sucking
mouths about the face of the victim, still alive.

The Bugs came on.

One neared Rusty. A tendril knifed at him. He kicked madly into the
yellow mass, felt the pulpy insect crush under the blow. The ground was
a blanket of writhing yellow, spreading toward them. He hoped it would
be quick. But it never was. One died slowly. The life sucked from him.
Rusty kicked at another. The others were stamping wildly.

"Into the ship!" yelled Spike.

The tubes! They would be safe there. Rusty leaped a slashing wave as
there was a rush for the ship. He went into the ochre, crawling things
with one bound, into a drift-can with another. He clanged the port over
him, heard the others slam shut.

Rusty lay in the silent darkness, unable to move in the cramped
cylinder. They would have to wait for the Bugs to leave. It might be
days! The air was slowly becoming bad. He would have to open the port
soon. He might be able to open it just a fraction, but those tendrils
were thin, they might whip in. The place was stifling. His throat
ached. There was bursting panic in his lungs.

Suddenly he was pressed against the bottom of the tube by an invisible
force. They were moving.

But why? How? The Great Moon was not in position yet! They would miss
it! He raised a hand to the port-lock. It would be better to jump. And
the air--he could not breathe. He fumbled with the lock, could not open
it. Weakly he clawed at the port. They would--drift--into--space....

Slowly, his mind relaxed into unconsciousness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rusty opened his eyes and breathed deeply of exquisite air. He saw
green foliage above him. He was lying upon a verdant substance, soft
and moist. It was very hot. His furs had been removed.

"It's time you came to!" said a voice, and Rusty sat up, saw the rotund
Earthian approaching. He glanced around, saw the drift-lube nearby,
half-buried in the mud. The others were standing beside it, their odd
appearance increased by the removal of their heavy clothing.

They had made it. They had escaped! He was free!

"What happened?" he asked, head dizzy.

"Fool Bugs cut the ropes," said Spike. "We floated off Pluto. Several
of them must have held on the rope-ends for a while. Their weight
slowed us down till the moon came over, but we hit in the jungle--an
ocean, either way, between us and the Plain."

"Lord!" said Rusty. "No man ever crossed this part of the planet on
foot!"

"Nobody ever escaped from Pluto either," said Spike. "Until ten minutes
ago." He yanked Rusty to his feet.

Rusty looked at the dense wall of plants about them. There was barely
room for a man to pass between the twisted trunks and vines. Overhead
was the same thick mass of green. Faint light seeped through. But here
was a single, tangible thing--something one could grasp with the hands,
fight for life--a goal at the end. There was a hope! It was better than
Pluto.

The others came up.

"What now?" said one of the Martians in his toneless voice.

"Cross jungle, cross sea," said Lothar.

"Let's get going," said Spike. He turned to the seemingly impenetrable
growths surrounding them.

Rusty followed. His heart stopped.

A great white thing fell slowly in front of them. It dangled in
mid-air. It was a spider--bigger than an Earthian cow. Green, checked
eyes bulging, it hung from a thick strand of translucent material.

Spike sprang back as the monstrosity reached out a hairy tendril. Rusty
stood hypnotized by the pale hideousness of the creature.

With a quick movement it swung toward them.

Rusty broke his trance. He leaped aside. A tentacle slapped across his
face as he sprawled into the mire.

He started up, saw the insect crouched upon the writhing form of a
Martian. Shrill, animal screams cut the air as the red man struggled
frantically to escape the tightening white claws. The gaping man drew
close.

"Get him, Lothar!" shouted Spike from the edge of the jungle.

The eight-foot Uranian plodded to the thing, short legs working
rapidly. With a massive hand, he caught one stalk-like feeler, and
wrenched and twisted it from the globose body.

Holding the wriggling Martian, the spider flung itself upon Lothar. It
landed upon him with all its pulpy weight. The Martian quit screaming,
lay still. His eyes protruded and Rusty saw that his face, normally
light red, was slowly darkening.

The ghastly pale insect lay upon the Uranian body, covering his chest
and arms. It did not move. The eyes glazed. Then slowly the creature
rolled over upon crumpled legs. It twitched feebly.

Lothar arose, his upper body a mass of pink, gelatinous fluid. Rusty
revolted at the gory figure.

The Martian was dead. His fellow red man searched his pockets, shrugged
and did not look at him again.

Lothar returned from a pool where he had washed away the "blood."

"Poke hands in soft middle," he grinned. "Pull insides out!"

Spike laughed uproariously. He stepped toward the plants.

They laugh, thought Rusty, and one of us is dead! They'll laugh when
the next one dies. Who will it be? All? He looked into the green walls
and the question arose from fact, not pessimism. He had thought those
two Plutonian months had hardened him. Could he stand this new world of
new terrors?

Warily moving around the body of the shuddering insect, Rusty followed
them into the jungle.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great moon's vast vegetal areas were a monotony of green. Pools of
water, matted plants, glaucous mire underfoot, even the atmosphere was
a virescent mist, tinted by an unknown gas. But the life there had not
the monotony of the scene.

Pluto was a dying world; the moon, still upon its first step along the
timeless path of evolution. Every mile brought new terrors. Carnivorous
beetles. The purple _Gux_ dragon, twenty feet long, daggered with
venomous fangs. And the white spiders. The little gnats, slightly
smaller than an Earthian hornet, followed constantly, raised deep sores
upon bare faces and arms.

Slow against the resisting foliage, Rusty followed the maddening pace
and considered every step his last. Snatching at strange fruit, pausing
at shallow pools for unrefreshing sleep, they lost all conception
of time. There was no distinct night and day, no restful blackness,
only a change of hue in the tinted air and painted sky; a green which
deepened to a phosphoric glow, then faded again as the strange sun
burned redly over the jungle. Weary to falling, sick of mind with the
heat and the moist air, Rusty plodded along at Spike's side, marveled
at his fellow Earthian's endurance. But pirating about every planet of
the system, had hardened Spike to anything the Universe could inflict.
The little Venusian was not affected at all, but rather thrived in the
dank heat which was little different from his native world. And immuned
on a world that spun ceaselessly from hot to cold, his native Vulcan,
nothing fazed the mighty Lothar.

The Martian, however, fared worse than the rest. His body, covered with
thick, red hair, was matted with a viscous perspiration. His large ears
drooped as he struggled along, spindling form bent as he slid one
weary, primate foot after the other.

Rusty wondered how they knew the right direction. Dizzy with the heat,
he did not realize he had even asked the question.

"Depend on Lothar," said Spike, wiping a streaming brow. "Vulcanites
can find their way out of hell."

Hearing his name, the giant dropped back beside them.

"Any idea how much farther?"

As Lothar answered, a long, green coil fell silently upon the Venusian
at Rusty's side, yanked him swiftly up into the thick plants.

It happened fast. Rusty doubted his eyes. It must be the heat--but the
little green man was gone.

Spike yelled.

The Martian staggered up. They peered into the dense growth above and
there was only the heavy leaves. The Venusian had vanished, as if
spirited away by the Wisps of Jupiter.

"Another one," said Spike. He stepped on into the jungle.

"Wait!" cried Rusty. They couldn't just leave--without even looking. To
what depths had these men sunk? Was there no spark of humanity left?

He grabbed a limb, swung up into the matted roof.

It was a stifling mass of green. He could see nothing. He probed about,
futilely. There was not even a trace where the Venusian's body might
have been dragged.

Spike was climbing up when he came down.

"There's nothing there! I--!"

Spike shrugged. "Let's go," he said impassively. He kicked aside the
plants, struck off into the vegetation.

Rusty tarried, gazing up into the foliage. There was nothing he could
do. There was nothing up there. That made _two_. Men had never survived
this place. How long before it would be his turn?

He followed the three disappearing figures.

The heat closed in and the world swam, a green daze, before his eyes.
His body moved by sheer will. His mind was far away, a cub reporter
on his first assignment. He shook his head savagely as the Tele-news
office appeared before him, a wavering hallucination.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was several miles before they noticed that the Martian was gone.

Rusty looked back and there was only the dark jungle, quiet and
ominous, green with a mirage-like beauty of fresh life, but a beauty
of silent death. What things watched unseen from those thick masses?
Watched their every move, ready to spring upon them? First the Martian
killed by a spider. Then the little Venusian. Now another--to what
death? God, if a man must die let him die _seeing_, not a swift
vanishing to unknown terrors.

"Let him go," said Spike. "I never did like Martians."

Rusty wearily started to turn back. He tried to persuade the others.
Spike and the Uranian laughed at his "girlish" exhortations. Every man
for himself--they were probably right. He had a story to tell on Earth,
one which he must live to tell. But Earth was far away.

They trudged on.

This time Rusty saw it happen. Or thought he did.

Spike was walking a short distance ahead. A thick, slender _something_
fell slightly over his head.

Rusty screamed to him.

Long acquainted with danger, the man fell flat.

And the rope-like thing whipped back, vanished into the plants above.
It had been long and green, a slick, menacing danger of no name.

After that, the three walked side by side.

And the jungle stopped abruptly. Before them was the purple sea.

The tinted ocean lay smooth as glass, not a ripple upon its dull
surface. Directly ahead, rising from the vast expanse of still water,
was a dim, distant island, mountains gently rolling.

"It's the Plain!" cried Spike.

It was faint on the horizon, a hazy undulation darker than the mist of
distance.

"Looks like mountains," said Rusty wearily. He despaired of finding
anything right in this irrational world.

"It's the Plain," said Spike again. "You can't see it. They're the
cliffs behind it."

He stepped to the water, waded in. Lothar followed.

"Hey!" yelled Rusty. "Why not build a raft? We can't swim that
distance!"

"Build a raft from what? Those trees won't float. And the water's only
five feet at the deepest."

Rusty gingerly waded in. The liquid, thicker than water but of similar
elements, according to Spike, was covered with a thin film of vegetable
oil. It was sticky, hot.

Making slow progress in the heavy stuff, Rusty splashed along in the
wake of the ponderous Lothar. The water slowly deepened to his chest.

A scaly head popped up beside him. Water snake!

Impulsively, Rusty struck out with his fist.

The head disappeared, came to the surface again a short distance away.

It was not a snake. It was a Venusian--_the_ Venusian.

He looked at Rusty and scowled, if a _fish_ can scowl. Rusty stared,
unbelieving. He had appeared so quietly the others had not turned.
Where could he have come from? How could he have escaped the thing in
the jungle?

"How did you get here!"

"Why do you strike at me, Earthman!"

Rusty uselessly attempted to explain. They could never understand
Earthian reactions. Rusty hated the green creatures.

The Venusian sneered, swam silently to the others.

"Well!" said Spike, with his usual calm. "We didn't expect to see you
again! What happened?"

"Tree _vwark_."

"Oh," said Spike. He turned and waded on.

Rusty stared, aghast. These men weren't human.

"Hey!" he called. "What the hell's a 'Tree vwark?'"

Spike turned and smiled.

"_Vwark_ that lives in trees," he answered, turned back to the water.

And Rusty knew he could expect nothing more. The Venusians were strange
of body, had stranger ways. They never spoke of their activities. It
was an instilled custom of their kind. And he knew why Spike had not
interrogated further, uselessly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scattered and splashing, the four waded toward the distant hills.
Earthmen, Venusian, Vulcanian.

The Venusian swam easily ahead, often disappearing for long periods
beneath the surface, absorbing oxygen from the water as adequately as
from the air.

Rusty, succumbing to his innate get-the-facts complex, asked if the
seas contained life, was answered in the negative. But he questioned
the statement when they passed a half-submerged creature that weighed
well over five tons, heavy clawed limbs rearing stiffly. The air about
it was a nausea.

"Mud animal," explained Spike. "Life here came from the mire instead of
the sea. With the exception of the Plain, the whole planet is covered
with soft mud, thousands of miles deep. It is there that most of the
life exists. This one probably got wounded, came blindly up and died."

As the Earthian spoke, he halted, his face suddenly darkened.

Rusty, advancing to him, felt a strong suction beneath his feet. Go
back! But he could not turn back, nor go forward.

"Lothar!" yelled Spike, but the mighty Vulcanian was also caught fast
in the grim pull.

The mire under the water had softened, like quicksand. It tugged at his
feet and legs, pulling him slowly down into the green ooze. He splashed
with powerful strokes. He sank deeper.

"Fish!" cried Spike. The lithe Venusian idly tread water beside them,
showed little interest. "Get us out of here!"

The water slowly climbed up Rusty's fear-tingling body. He could feel
the liquid creeping up, as he was pulled down, into the slime. He
strained with all the power of his legs. Seized them with his hands and
pulled. He sank deeper, slowly. He could feel the bottomless suction.
Like a nightmare in which one falls slowly. It was no nightmare. It was
stark reality. Thick water, green ooze. He splashed wildly.

Fish stared from one to the other, curiously.

"Get you out?" he asked.

This was madness. It could not happen to him. He was Rusty Carter, an
ordinary Tele-newsman. He could not die here. The water was beneath
his chin. Rusty remembered no aid could be expected from the Venusian.
His nature, utterly individualistic, could barely conceive of anyone
needing, much less asking for help. Damn Venusians.

"Damn you, I'll twist your scaly neck!" cried Spike. "Help us out of
here!"

Rusty sank lower. Neck muscles strained to hold his head above the
surface. He remembered once on Mars seeing six Venusians killed
separately by a lizard, when together they could have easily torn it
to pieces. He choked as water entered his mouth, swallowed. Must keep
mouth closed. It had a sour taste.

Spike's tone changed. "Pull us out and I will give you much whirl-water
when we reach Earth!"

Whisky was the one temptation of the bright star's people, something
they coveted, could not understand. Rusty's eyes were filming, the
water upon his face, straining back and upward. Interplanetary Control
had long forbidden the sale of liquor to Venusians. The water was
at his nose, burning, bubbling. He gasped. It entered his nose, his
throat, tickled in his chest. He wanted to cough. The water covered his
mouth. This was all. This was drowning. Wild fear, insane rage surged
through him. His head went under. He tugged mightily at the water above
him, felt hands in air. His lungs screamed for air, his chest bursting.
He opened his mouth, and took a deep, gasping breath....

Coughing, he was carried a safe distance, dropped unceremoniously into
the water again. His eyes were blurred and he was sick. He wanted to
kill that Venusian. They were all that way.

Sputtering, Rusty rubbed his eyes, saw Spike and Lothar watching from
shallow water. The Venusian swam ahead.

They turned and waded on.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was night when they reached the Plain. Then it was pitch black,
like fingers against his eyes. They had passed the balanced zone. Here
there was a kilo-rev of darkness, they said. Rusty was told to get in
line--the Uranian, cat-like, would lead the way.

With Spike before him and the cold fin of the Venusian to the rear,
they were led for hours into the darkness.

Rusty's head vaguely ached. He walked with closed eyes, almost slept.

He bumped into something--Spike. Had he slept?

Lothar grunted, "Settlement."

Rusty strained his tired eyes, could see nothing. They marched on.

A faint glow appeared in the distance, slowly widened, became dots of
light. It was one of the smaller moon settlements, Spike said; chiefly
populated by rich farmers who raised the delicious _cavote_, luscious
fruit cultivated for the interplanetary trade.

They halted on the outskirts of the city.

The city was dark. There were few lights but Rusty looked at the
shadowed windows and knew people were asleep there, peacefully in a
commonplace existence. For a moment he revered their simple lives, and
the ordinary held no memory of monotony but a yearning for its rest as
his heart went into the city and softly cried for admission. But there
was no response to his pleas, only the black windows, and his longings
were but a hollow mockery of his weary soul. He was a fugitive, a
convicted murderer in the eyes of all he might meet--he was as these
with whom he had fled just punishment. Trapped by a laughing fate, he
felt little hope for peace ever again. His loneliness flamed to rage.

"Where's the space port?" asked Spike.

"I take," said Lothar, who had been there before.

He led them around the cluster of dimly lighted buildings, past the
mud-flats of cavot plants. The city was voiceless, the streets were
vacant. As they turned a corner, a great clearing spread before them,
a landing field dotted with the shadowed shapes of space liners, and
smaller craft. The field was sparsely lighted.

They paused.

"Spread out. See what's about," Spike whispered. "Meet here in ten
revs."

The men slowly faded into the darkness.

Rusty saw a flat, lighted building at a near corner of the field.

Moving stealthily to a glowing window, he peeped over the sill. The
walls were filled with space-station equipment. In the center of the
room was a table around which nine men were seated, Martian pilots and
a native watchman. As Rusty looked, the watchman arose, strapped a gun
about him and left the room.

Rusty heard an outside door open and close, fled silently.

He returned, found the Venusian and Lothar. Spike had not come back.

       *       *       *       *       *

They waited, staring into the darkness.

The night was suddenly torn by the staccato hiss of a vib-ray.

Spike appeared, breathless. "Watchman saw me!" he panted. "Found a
ship. Come on!"

He sped again into the shadows, led them to a big space liner which
nestled in the darkness of a hangar. The door was open. Spike motioned
for them to enter.

A form materialized at the stern of the ship. A vib-ray spat.

Rusty, following the Venusian in the small door, saw Spike leap at the
man. He could not make them out in the darkness. As he jumped down, he
heard a quickly throttled groan.

Spike appeared again. "Get in! Quick!" Shouts and the sound of running
feet came toward them.

Lothar was already inside. Rusty climbed in. Spike slammed the heavy
door.

No sound came through the insulated walls but as they paused for breath
the room grew rapidly warm--hot.

"They're raying the door!" cried Rusty. He had seen it done in many a
police raid.

The plate glowed to a red heat, melted to a puddle. They sprang aside.

"Come out!" commanded a toneless voice. "We've got you!"

Rusty ran to the left, the others to the right. He tried the door to
the next room. It was locked. The others had disappeared into the
forward compartments, the door closed behind them. Rusty no longer felt
fear nor panic. He was an animal now, fighting to live. He silently
crept to the side of the seared hole in the hull. A dim glow of light
entered from the field.

A sleek vib-ray poked its long nose in the doorway. Rusty waited. The
gun was followed by an arm. A man came into view. His skin was red,
Martian. He climbed into the ship, followed by six more.

Rusty crouched in the darkness, holding his breath.

They stood in the dim light, peering warily about. There had been nine
at the station, Rusty remembered. Spike had gotten one. Where was the
other? But they would discover him in a moment.

Rusty moved swiftly. He snatched a rifle from the nearest man. With the
same movement, brought the stock upward, smashed it into the crimson
face.

The others whirled.

Rusty leveled the vib-ray at them. They stared and their guns clattered
to the floor. Slowly, their hands raised.

"Spike!" yelled Rusty.

The door opened and the Earthian peered out. Lothar and the Venusian
crowded behind him.

"What's the best ship here?" Rusty demanded of the tight-lipped
Martians. There was no answer. What did one do when one had a gun,
wanted a man to speak and he wouldn't?

Spike entered the room. "I'll make 'em talk!" he said. He picked up a
fallen gun, and before Rusty could stop him had fired into the group.

Four men died to show Rusty what one did.

The answers of the remaining three were as specific as they were hasty.

"Shall I finish 'em off?" asked Spike, amused. Rusty moved to stop him.

"Shall I finish you off?" said a voice at the door. "Don't turn around!
Stay where you are!"

The missing man, thought Rusty. His heart did not leap at the sudden
voice. He had grown to expect these things. Would he soon laugh at
death as did Spike?

The Martians inside smirked, bent for their guns.

Rusty was looking at Spike. What would _he_ do? And Spike was not slow
in acting. His gun was still leveled at the stooping men. His face did
not change as flame shot from the barrel. In utter bravado, Spike rayed
them down. Darted swiftly back against the wall out of the line of fire.

The gun hissed outside, missed and struck into the bodies of his own
fellows. He would fire again.

Before he could turn the gun, Rusty was upon him.

They crashed to the ground. Rusty's spring carried him over the man,
who was on his feet instantly, gun poised.

The gun was silent. Rusty rolled cautiously over.

He saw the bulk of the Vulcanian looming behind the crimson man. A huge
hand had crushed his shoulder.

Lothar raised the Martian, bashed him against the side of the ship. He
fell limply, did not move.

Rusty got up. There were seven dead men in the plane. One was before
him, broken and bleeding. Another lay somewhere in the shadows. The
nine men he had seen at the table in the station were dead. Was it his
fault? He had killed none of them. No? They had been protecting their
rights, their property. They had died doing so.

Fish climbed down from the ship. He kicked aside the body on the
ground. Lothar laughed deep in his chest.

"We're wasting time," said Spike with a grin. He turned to the
designated ship.

Rusty wondered if he could write of these things. The Tele-news seemed
but a hazy memory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The plane was a light cruiser, swift and well-armed. Probably the
property of a wealthy merchant, it was luxuriously furnished.

Rusty gave the ship no more than a tired glance, waited for the
take-off.

Jets roared in a steep ascension, then hushed to a restful drone. They
passed out of the moon's heavy atmosphere. Rusty saw the stars cease to
twinkle, change to a steady, burning light.

They were in space, dim and shadowy--headed home.

Rusty, Spike and the Vulcanian fell into berths as the ship was set on
its course. Navigation was left to the Venusian. He did not sleep, gave
no sign of fatigue. It was part of his nature.

Rusty slept dreamlessly and when he awoke, he found almost two days had
passed. Mars glowed redly behind them and the star of Earth was bright
before the view Plates.

Earth. Home. New York. He stared at the pin point of light, tried to
locate the city. Millions of people there, at this distance--nothing.
The Tele-news! A simple joy tingled within Rusty as he gazed at the
distant planet. He was coming home. He had been far, he had a story
to tell--one that had long outgrown its intended bounds. He saddened,
however, as he remembered there would be no Skipper to hear his tale.

Spike came in.

"Gosh," said Rusty. "Is there anything to eat?"

"Not much," he answered. "We'll have to catch another liner before
long."

"Buy food?" asked Rusty, sleepily.

"_Buy_ it!" Spike roared with laughter. "What do you think we got this
ship for? Buy it! We take it--and anything else they happen to have
aboard. We scuttled one liner off Saturn while you slept."

"Lord!" thought Rusty. This was what Lothar had mentioned on Pluto.
They _had_ turned pirate. And he was considered one of them. They knew
nothing of the scheme that had landed him on the stellar prison. They
thought he was as they--another rat driven from the law-respecting
Universe.

Rusty could rationalize the dead men whose ship they had taken. The
ship had been available in no other way. It had been a fair fight. But
now it could go no further. Earth gleamed in the distance. His part
must change here; he had fought against Earth's laws, that he might
regain them. He must stand for them now.

"Spike," began Rusty, "there is something I never told you. I must
tell you now." And he told of the false crime that had brought him to
Pluto, how he was to have been released and his sudden abandonment.
He _was_ a fugitive, yes, in a way; but he must get to Earth--somehow
vindicate himself. It would be impossible if he added real crimes to
the pretension that had put him here. Spike must understand.

The chunky Earthian's face changed from surprise to rage. Then to a
deadly calm. "We better not let the others know of this," he said.

The Venusian entered. He must have been just outside the door.

Rusty saw his eye, the cruel glint there, knew here would be a climax
to his adventure. And he knew the result, while strength remained in
his body, would be well. He could not lose now--Earth was too near, the
end of his journey was at hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Venusian stared at them with his single, beady eye. "Secrets!" he
sneered. "I heard. An Earthian informer! I'll fix that!" He drew a
short vib-pistol from his belt, leveled it in Rusty's face. His fishy
eye gleamed.

Rusty met the gaze. "Put away the gun," he said. Rusty was
experiencing a new sensation. He could kill this green thing without a
twinge of conscience.

"Put up the gun," said Spike.

"Ah, so you're with him, too! I'll get you both." The pistol veered to
Spike.

Rusty saw the bulk of Lothar squeeze the door behind the Venusian.

"Lothar is behind you, Fish," said Spike calmly.

The little green man slithered into a corner beside the door.

The Vulcanian stood there dumbly.

"Lothar," said Fish silkily, "these Earthians have turned against
us--will sell us to the Patrol--send us back to Pluto. The red-haired
one was a spy since the first!"

The huge Vulcanian stood silently, looking at Spike. His tremendous
arms dangled at his sides.

"Don't believe him, Lothar," said Spike.

"Shut up, Earthman!" snapped the Venusian.

Spike ignored him. "We aren't--" He never finished.

The gun spit at him.

Spike stared at Fish in astonishment. Then he fell forward upon his
face.

Lothar looked on foolishly.

The Venusian hissed softly between his teeth. The gun covered them both.

Rusty stared unbelieving. Spike was dead. He suddenly felt very alone.
Spike had been merciless, cruel, little different from the others of
his kind on Pluto. But he had been a man--an Earthian--a friend....

Lothar swung. Before the green man could squeeze the trigger. Fast. A
heavy arm struck the scaly hand, snapped the gun from a broken wrist.
The vib-ray fell to the floor.

Rusty watched him, motionless. Lothar grasped the green neck with one
hand, placed iron fingers deftly over the squirming head and--as a man
would pick up a marble--he plucked out the single eye. Rusty cringed.

Fish screamed. His reptilian arms flailed the air. Lothar slowly
dismembered him, tore off his limbs one by one. He yanked the head from
the twitching body--hurled the gory thing across the room.

Rusty stared with a strange fascination at the ghastly vengeance. He
was still staring blankly when Lothar came toward him.

"You Earthman! I thought spy! You die, too."

The trance left Rusty. The giant Vulcanian loomed over him.

"No," Rusty said. "No! Lothar, listen--!" He suddenly realized just
what was happening. He would be helpless in those powerful hands.

The creature reached for him. Rusty remembered covering a match between
Earthman and Vulcanian once for the Tele-news sport section. The
Earthian, champion of three worlds, hadn't had a chance.

He retreated slowly as the brute came on, bumped sharply against the
wall.

The giant stopped before him, little eyes squinting at him. The stark
deadliness of the face filled Rusty with an eery fright. Silently, a
massive hand grabbed his arm.

With all the strength of his 170 pounds, Rusty swung at the jutting
chin.

His hand smashed. The Vulcanian did not even blink.

He lifted Rusty, swung him around. His hold slipped and Rusty was flung
against the opposite wall.

Arising dazed, he saw the Vulcanian lumbering over.

Rusty had seen what had happened to Fish. It would be the same with
him. How could he fight a man he couldn't hurt? He went ill as his foot
slid upon one of the Venusian's severed arms. The star of Earth gleamed
brightly in the window and Rusty died a little death of sorrow.

The great Lothar plodded forward.

Rusty glanced wildly about, heart trembling. His shirt was growing wet.
There was nothing--he almost fainted at what he saw. Beneath his feet
was the weapon dropped by the Venusian.

Rusty snatched at the pistol as the Vulcanian swept upon him. He fired
into the hairy chest. The mighty arm came on, knocked Rusty from his
feet. Rusty fired again as he fell.

The monster's body fell across him, dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he crawled madly from under the heavy body, Rusty saw the side
viewplates filled with a gleaming hull. And printed on the sleek metal
was a familiar insignia. It was a space-plane alongside--the Stellar
Patrol. Hope leaped like a flame. His long journey was ended.

As he got to his feet, a voice thundered in the room. "Coming aboard
for inspection!" The sound came through the walls by radio. "Open
space-lock or we blast!"

Rusty ran to the adjoining room, swung the lever opening the outside
trap.

It was barely opened when three men in space outfits entered. They
slammed the trap behind them, doffed their helmets, entered the ship.
Rusty could have embraced them. Earthmen, shaven and clean....

The men came in, guns drawn. "Keep your hands in the air!" cautioned
one with a captain's stripe. He searched Rusty, pistol against his
chest. The others went forward.

"Wait!" cried Rusty. "You don't understand...." His words died away. A
stolen ship--four escaped Plutonian prisoners, three dead. How could
they understand?

"What a mess," said one, glancing into the other compartment. "Looks
like this fellow saved us trouble--killed off his chums before we came!"

How should he begin? How could he explain the stolen ship? They would
never believe his story. And nine men had been killed in the ship's
theft. He had done his part in their death.

They searched the ship thoroughly, Rusty closely guarded by the officer.

"I am Rusty Carter! I--"

"Shut up. We don't care who you are."

The patrolmen returned.

"No one else aboard," one reported. "Three bodies, two rayed by the
same gun. A Venusian pulled apart--he must have been pretty annoyed
with him!"

Rusty was pushed into a chair.

"Okay," said the captain. "Talk! We know you got this boat from the
Great Moon near Pluto. We know you've been terrorizing the terrestrial
traffic lanes for days. You killed nine men at the Great Moon space
port. Where you come from?"

As calmly as possible, Rusty told his complete story, from the
beginning of his mission in New York to his awakening presence in the
ship. Hearing the story, he knew himself it was no good.

When he finished the patrolmen laughed.

"A good story anyway," said the officer, "but with its flaws. Editor
Russell's dead and you can prove nothing. You lie! You could not have
escaped Pluto, even in the fantastic way you said. And you might have
waded the sea but no man could survive the jungle of the Great Moon.
Then, of course, you and your bloody crew _have_ been preying upon the
commerce lines for two days, destroyed one liner. Even the bodies in
there could convict you of murder. Give up, lad. You're a goner!"

Rusty sought vainly for belief. They must believe him! He could not
return to Pluto again.

Without further ceremony, he was forced into a space suit.

"You know the law concerning piracy _or_ murder in the space lanes, of
course," said the Captain, adjusting his helmet. "Interplanetary law
authorizes _death at apprehension_."

It could not be.

But he was carried to the patrol ship, locked in a guarded cell.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sat upon the metal bunk, head heavy upon his hands. It was all over
now. He had pled and sworn to no avail. His execution order had been
filed. After the customary forty revs of grace, he would die. They
would not even let him radio the Tele-news. Give up, his weary mind
cried. At least death was better than Pluto. But he was so near home,
his job completed. A priceless story would die with him. He felt fear
no longer and his unreasoning rage had passed. There was only a great
sadness, that he had come this far--to meet defeat. And at the hands of
those whom he had sought.

The man before his cell moved away. The guard was probably changing.

Another patrolman approached, stared intently into the cage. "So you're
Rusty Carter," he said. Rusty said nothing. No verbal torment could
touch him. "I knew Carter once. He was a fine fellow then."

Rusty looked up. He had never seen the man before.

"Yeah," the guard continued, "Carter saved my reputation once--when I
was caught in a bribery charge ten years ago, when I was on the ground
force in New York."

Rusty searched his mind. He remembered a civil bribery scandal the
Tele-news had uncovered many years ago. Several of the accused had been
released by his activities. But the man before him struck no chord of
recognition.

He was smiling. "You never knew me," he said, "but I knew you. I helped
send you a medal when we were cleared, by your efforts. It's too bad
you went wrong. Is there anything you want, in your last moments?"

Rusty almost burst with joy. Was there anything he wanted! "Can you get
a message through to Earth?"

"If this is a trick, you won't live to see it done. I suppose I
could--I know the radio operator."

"Send this. Quick! To the New York Tele-news office. Tell them what's
happened. Tell them to do something!"

He waited for what seemed hours.

The man returned, sent the other guard away, shoved a printed message
through the bars.

Rusty read with outward calm. His heart fell within him.

"_Carter legally convicted attempted robbery, murder. Appealed to
President, no avail. Nothing we can do. He was a good Tele-news man.
Sorry._"

He sank down to the bunk, the paper falling from his fingers.

Absently he heard the sound of marching feet in the corridor outside,
looked up blankly, saw uniformed men before his cell.

The door opened and he was led out.

Rusty shook hands with the guard, was marched down the hall to the
stern of the ship. It didn't matter now.

The older method of execution had been repealed, Rusty remembered idly.
Instead of merely dropping the man out of the space lock, he was now
placed in a disintegration chamber.

The lethal box stood before him, a small, compact cylinder of metal,
levers upon its side.

The door was opened.

"Anything you wish to say?"

A man was speaking to him. Did he have anything to say? What could he
say? But one should die with a flourish, a purple passage. Oddly none
came. He merely wished the business over. He could rest then. Did he
have anything to say?

"No, but you're wrong."

"Stubborn pirate. They all die innocent!"

The officer slammed the door.

Machinery whirred. It was very dark. Boy! wouldn't the public eat this
story up! But in a few moments, before his mind could know it, he would
be gone--body and mind--disintegrated into their component elements. He
would be a wisp of gas, floating out when the door opened.

The humming stopped abruptly. It was dark and silent. It flashed to
Rusty that this must be death.

Then the door opened. Would he float out? He sat there blinking in the
sudden light.

"Message for you," said a voice.

Rusty stared. A hand reached in, gently helped him out. A paper was
thrust into his hand.

He took it, read it again and again, but somehow his mind didn't take
it in.

"You have the apologies of the Interplanetary Patrol!" someone said.

Rusty read the message again.

    "Evidence brought by Mrs. S. K. Russell throws new light. Record
    just discovered in private papers of "Skipper" Russell. Carter
    granted full pardon."

    Signed: THE PRESIDENT.

Someone touched his arm. "The Commander requests your company for
dinner."

Then a blinding light suddenly flashed in Rusty Carter's mind. "Dinner,
hell!" he yelled. "Take me to the radio. I've got a story for the New
York Tele-news!"





End of Project Gutenberg's Exiles of the Three Red Moons, by Carl Selwyn

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EXILES OF THE THREE RED MOONS ***

***** This file should be named 61752.txt or 61752.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/7/5/61752/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
