The Project Gutenberg EBook of Venus Has Green Eyes, by Carl Selwyn

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Venus Has Green Eyes

Author: Carl Selwyn

Release Date: April 10, 2020 [EBook #61798]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK VENUS HAS GREEN EYES ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         VENUS HAS GREEN EYES

                            By CARL SELWYN

                Space-trotting Flip Miller was prisoner
                of the lovely, cruel Venusian queen. It
             looked like star's end for the stubborn-jawed
               young Earthling until he remembered that
                women are women--on Earth or on Venus!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1940.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Charlie Mead, trapper, and Flip Miller, ex-prospector, started a
forty-day drunk. Charlie just liked the idea. Flip had reasons.

"In a few hours it'll be wetter'n a swamp duck's gullet," said Charlie,
grinning behind his whiskers. "And darker'n West Pluto!" Charlie
had been trapping otters here for five years and accepted the long
nights as resignedly as the mud, the eternal fog and the heat. He
poured another glass of _loku_, squinted at its blue sparkle in the
tube-light. The gray mists swirled through the open door and the raw
wind whistled through the rusty holes in the wall.

Flip leaned back against the bundles of fur and held up four fingers.

"To hell with the following," he counted, "I.M.C., radios, fuel
tanks, and this soggy planet of yours, Venus!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Noted for his wild-goose chases and wilder ideas, Flip Miller was
always running into trouble. In fact it was just two months ago that
the Space Patrol found him marooned on Pallas. He had one pint of air
left when they found him, said he fell out of his plane while looking
for diamonds. The Patrol took him to Mars. There, he immediately got
in a poker game and made a fortune--and immediately got in another and
lost it all. That is, all except a doubtful map of a Venusian xanite
mine which nobody else would accept as stakes. Which was his reason for
being here, if Flip ever needed a sane reason for being anywhere.

For once however his screwball ventures panned out.

"And I've been here all these years without knowing a billion dollars
was in my back yard," said Charlie who considered the matter very
funny. "Leastwise it was a billion till--"

"Shut up, you blinking old veedle-chaser," said Flip. People always
laughed at his misfortunes. Maybe it was because he did too....

Charlie's island was in the middle of the Black Swamp. The mine was
a few hundred miles east. Fused with asphalt and deep in the mire,
thousands of miles from nowhere, it was small wonder it had lain there
unvisited since its original discovery. The map had passed through the
hands of sundry dissolute, short-lived sourdoughs till the location
became as dubious as other bar-room talk. It was Flip's luck that the
map eventually got around to him. He was probably the only man in the
system who would have believed in it.

Filled with quick visions, he'd figured his treasure up on the spot. It
would cost about fifty dollars a ton to get it out of the swamp, smelt
the asphalt and ship the ore to Earth. On Earth xanite ore was worth
over a thousand dollars a ton.

Then the fates ran amuck.

His plane's fuel tank sprang a leak. Flip lost every drop of the
reserve that was to carry him back to the mainland. The mainland was
25,000 miles away. Then his sending set blew a transformer and he
couldn't radio for help. Last, while trying to ascertain his position
on the receiving set, he heard that I.M.C.--Interstellar Metallurgical
Company--had just opened a gigantic xanite deposit on Mars. The Market
quoted xanite now at twenty dollars a ton. Venusian xanite suddenly
wasn't worth swamp water.

"It shore is too bad," continued Charlie with smiling sympathy.

"You probably wished it on me," said Flip, "so you could have company
on this mildewed damn island."

That was the one blessing in his barrage by malevolent fates--he'd
glided to Charlie's island and the old fellow, one of many of his kind
in the Venusian swamps, had placed his metal shack, his canned beans
and his _loku_ at Flip's disposal. To all of which he was doomed till
the supply ship came around after the rains--forty days ahead.

"I wish one of your pirates would show up," mused Flip. "I might could
bum a ride out of here."

"Don't wish that, boy," said Charlie with quick seriousness. "I've been
pretty lucky so far but I told you about the fellow who used to be
here--he's buried out yonder in the mud. These here Venusian pirates're
about the meanest critters you find anywheres."

"They come around during the nights, huh."

"Yeah, when the season's catch is ready for packing. They kill the
fellow and take his pelts. You quit talking about pirates, boy. They'd
just as soon skin you as an otter."

"Say! What about this female pirate I heard about on the mainland?"

"Captain Vixen? I never seen her--never knew nobody that had. She
don't come out here and the natives won't talk about her. But you can
bet your Sunday space-togs she's behind this swamp raiding--she runs
everything on the mainland, about ruined the big industries there.
Supposed to be a native queen back in the hills; hates foreigners. They
say she's nursed scorpions and killed men with her fingernails."

"Pretty tough date, huh."

And now the twilight was coming on, it was starting to rain--and soon
it would be blackness and constant rain for forty dreary days.

"Oh, hell," yawned Flip. "And I didn't bring my bathing suit." He
joined Charlie in a drink.

       *       *       *       *       *

The thirty-eighth century Haliburton and the Black Swamp Bacchus were
doing nicely with the sixteenth verse of _Lulu Drank Loku on Pluto_
when one of the more technical gestures necessary to the famous ditty
caused the bottle to be overturned.

"Now look what you've done," said Flip. "We've got only enough left for
thirty-nine days."

"Sho shorry," said Charlie.

Flip felt in his shirt pocket for a cigarette and found the ill-starred
map which had brought him here. The lines were blurred with sweat but
he could still make out the circle designating the mainland port, the
crow's feet designating the swamp, the large X in the upper left where
the xanite was. He didn't need the map any more; for the location was
stark in his mind. In fact he wished he could forget it.

"Ah, well," he said. He opened the tube-light, held the map over the
hissing jet. It turned brown, then black and he crumbled the ashes in
his fingers. "I sometimes wonder what'll happen to me next...."

He heard something above the wind at the door; probably a stray veedle,
one of the mud-mice which infested the swamp. Then he noticed Charlie's
eyes. They were very big and slowly his mouth fell open. He's gone
_loku_ loco, thought Flip. Charlie was staring past him, over his
shoulder. Flip whirled around.

A woman stood in the door.

Flip dropped his glass. Behind the woman stood three men. The woman
said something in Venusian. Flip couldn't understand and there was a
dumb pause as he stared with eyes that grew wider. The woman wore
hip-high swamp boots, two guns on her belt, a filmy shirt open at the
throat. Her hair, uncovered and flowing, was golden, vaporous as the
mist. Flip heard Charlie replying in the native language. The woman
stepped into the room. Eyes flicking into every corner, the three men
followed her. In the hand of each was an .03 pistol.

She halted before them and Flip rose from his chair like a ghost.
Charlie sat very still. His face was pale, eyes narrow.

"Sit down." It was a command and Flip sank back down helplessly. In his
amazement he'd probably have done anything she said. She spoke English,
in the liquid tones of a native. And she was Venusian, in all its
ancient connotation. Her eyes met Flip's evenly, calmly. Her eyes were
emerald green.

"You are Flip Miller," she said. "You have a map. Give it to me." She
held out her hand, as if refusal to her easy words was unthinkable.
Flip found his voice.

"Who--?" he began. Her eyes were cold, commanding; his ego rebelled and
he stood up quickly. With a swift hand, one of the men pushed him back
down. Flip came up again with fists balled. A pistol was jabbed in his
side.

"Jupiter's jumpers!" cried Flip. "What is this?"

"Captain Vixen...." breathed Charlie.

       *       *       *       *       *

The .03 gun was persuasive and Flip sat down. The man was huge,
ugly with a welted blue scar across his cheek. He stepped back and
stood with feet wide apart, the gun pointed at Flip's chest. Another
stationed himself at the door, the other stood behind Charlie. The
woman leaned against the table, crossed her legs.

"The map?" she said and produced a cigarette. Bravado was the word for
Flip, naturally or _à la loku_, and forgetting his anger he struck a
match for her. She ignored him, lit the cigarette herself. Without
changing his expression, Flip thumped the burning match toward the man
with the gun.

"So you're Captain Vixen," he said, meeting her gaze. "Perhaps I should
ask for your autograph."

"I should brand it on your mouth, Earthman. But the map, please?"

She wasn't beautiful, thought Flip; her eyes were too far apart,
her lips too large--sensual. And her green eyes, her eyebrows long
and slanting, her firm lithe sleekness--they were more feline than
feminine. Which was dangerously feminine, thought Flip, and perhaps she
was beautiful.

"Captain Vixen, the Legend does you an injustice," he observed. "The
complexion! Like swamp lilies in the mist...." Then he laughed, for
lovely women weren't danger to Flip Miller. Quite on the contrary. "Now
what's all this about a map? My xanite mine?"

"Fool, did you think your arrival on Venus was not made known to
me--and your purpose here?"

"You followed me to get that map!" Flip threw back his head with mirth.
Charlie made shushing noises. But it was too funny, Flip thought.
Didn't she know the mine was worthless? She must! But she had come out
here after him in person. Perhaps she didn't know the bottom had fallen
out of the xanite market.

The woman motioned to the man with the scar. "Search him," she said,
smoke curling from her lips. The fellow came forward, reached out a
hairy hand. Flip slapped it aside, annoyed.

"Oh, drop the mask, Viki, and let's be friends," he said. "And I don't
like the company you keep."

"Oh, Lord!" groaned Charlie. The man looked at the woman, waited for
orders.

"I said search him," she repeated.

The man holstered his gun, snatched at Flip's collar. The shirt ripped
and Flip's fist came up as he rose. _Spat!_ The man staggered backward,
hit the wall and slid to the floor. In the same second Flip hurled his
chair at the man in the doorway. The woman was between him and the
other fellow's gun, which probably saved him. He saw Charlie get to his
feet as he whirled upon the woman--to find her pistol only inches from
his belly.

Charlie turned upon the man behind him and was struck in the face by a
gun barrel. He fell across a pile of fur, was struggling up when the
heavy man deliberately placed a foot upon his wrist. Flip heard the
bone snap.

He ground his teeth in rage, started to lunge at the man and felt the
woman's gun press into his ribs. She had not moved from the table and
her face was calm as ever. She had merely changed the cigarette to her
left hand.

Fingering their bruises, the men Flip had dealt with came up. The other
had his gun leveled on Charlie. Flip saw the little trapper get slowly
to his feet, holding his limp arm. His face was very white. It was then
that Flip became quite sober to the situation. Suddenly he forgot this
woman's beauty, and what had been admiration turned to burning hate.

He told her so.

"For the last time," she said, "I'm asking for that map." Her eyes were
green ice and her hand did not waver on the gun.

"I burned the map."

"Then you will tell me the location."

"I will tell you nothing."

"Perhaps we can change your mind," she said. "Bring a rope, Thorg."

       *       *       *       *       *

After being thoroughly searched, they were pushed through the door.
Charlie didn't say anything and Flip knew his wrist must be agony.

Twilight had come, the long twilight of Venus which precedes the longer
night, and the mist was wet with drizzling rain. Visibility was poor;
Flip could see only a few yards ahead. The sun, never seen on this dank
planet, was now below the horizon leaving a dull gray afterglow--like
false dawn on Earth. He did not know where they were going nor what
mad torture the woman had conceived. He knew only that hate flamed in
his chest and her white throat in his hands would be a great pleasure.
Never before had Flip desired to harm a woman. But never before had he
seen one like this.

They passed a trim strato-plane, vague in the fog, and Flip discovered
how the pirates managed to land so noiselessly. On their craft's
power jets were the slim serpentine coils of Doxim silencers, exhaust
mufflers banned for years by Interstellar Law. If only a veedle would
crawl in one of those tubes, he thought; it might blow up the ship.

Slashing through the rain at Charlie's side, the threatening guns
close behind, Flip was jerked from his heated musings by an .03 shot.
He whirled around, saw smoke curling from the pistol in the woman's
hand. A dead veedle, an exceptionally small mud-mouse, lay at her feet.
Lordy, thought Flip as he was pushed on; the woman was heartless,
mercilessly cruel for the sport of it....

The edge of the little island halted them. Here the rock fell away for
several feet to the sickening ooze. Covering half of Venus, it was the
Black Swamp which stretched off in the dismal fog.

"Tie a rope around his neck and throw him over," came the woman's
impassive voice. "He will become quite loquacious before he sinks...."

So this was it. Flip looked at Charlie and Charlie looked at the swamp.
Flip followed his gaze and the dark viscous mire rippled in a passing
breeze, hissed against the rock and sucked hungrily like a live thing
waiting to feed. The swamps were bottomless.

The man Thorg, the one who had broken Charlie's wrist, threw a loop
over Flip's head, pulled it tight about his neck.

Flip fingered the rope and stared at the woman. Would she really do
this? And would he talk? No! Damned if he would! He'd sink first. But
the mine was worthless. Why not tell her where it was? But he had no
reason to expect a lesser fate if he did. Besides it was a matter of
honor now--and he knew one way to enhance that honor.

"Hold the rope when you shove him in," said the woman, her eyes mere
slits against the mist. "Let him sink slowly." The other two men had
their guns trained upon Flip. He met Thorg's beady eyes.

"Son of a veedle!" Flip said in his face. Suddenly he swooped down and
upward with one long arm. The man was shoved forward, to the brink of
the rock. He tottered there a long second, waving his arms frantically.
Flip sprang toward the woman. Flame burst around him, he wasn't hit.
He heard Thorg scream. He crashed into the woman as he heard a splash,
more screams. Then there was silence and he was struggling on the
wet-rock, the woman fighting like a tiger.

Flip found her gun hand, wrenched the weapon from her. He got to his
knees. The two men stood before him, one holding his gun on Charlie.
They couldn't fire at Flip for fear of hitting the woman. Flip started
to blast them, then turned the pistol upon their Captain Vixen beside
him.

"Drop your guns or I'll kill her," he said. He leveled his pistol, got
to his feet and backed away from the group. "Take their guns, Charlie,"
he grinned. "We're not licked yet."

"No?" said the woman.

His eyes flicked to her. She had a pistol in her hand. Flip had his
sights dead upon her. Damn, he thought; he'd forgotten she carried two
guns. They stared at each other--stalemated. The very wind was still.

"I've never killed a woman--" Flip said.

"I've never killed a man," she said quietly, "before." For the first
time she smiled. Flip's gun was suddenly jerked away, fire streaked
toward him, he heard the crash.

She had shot the gun from his hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood there, helpless and dumb. Captain Vixen lit a cigarette, her
gun still ready. She looked at him a long moment.

"Well," she said, green eyes never leaving his, "what are we waiting
for?" She motioned to the man with the scar. "Take the end of the rope,
Voss. Our Earthian friend hasn't tasted the mud yet, you know."

Charlie hadn't said anything. A gun at his back, his white mustache
ruffled by the wind, he stood silently watching Flip, holding his
broken arm. The choice was up to Flip.

"Look at the mud, Flip Miller," said the woman. "There is not even a
ripple where Thorg went down. He went quickly. You shall dip slowly,
that the conceit of your tongue and the rashness of your mind may be
reflected upon with regret." Flip glanced over the rock's edge. There
was only the quiet, waiting mire; no trace of Thorg's body.

"Vixen--" he began. He never finished for Voss pushed him over with
both hands.

The black surface of the mud rushed up at him. Arms flailing off
balance, he hit on his side with a heavy splash. He heard Charlie's
yell from above. He raised his head from the mud, tried to brush the
stuff from his eyes. A soft and clinging pressure was warm against his
legs, his waist. Through the mud in his eyes, he saw the dark flat
plain of the swamp stretching away into the mist. Turning, he saw the
perpendicular rock wall of the island rising above him. The hot ooze
crawled up to his chest and in his nostrils was the fetid smell of the
swamp, dank with the warm breath of ancient decay.

The mud crawled higher. He struck out with his hands against it,
struggled to pull himself upward but a grim suction tugged at his feet
and legs, slowly drew his body downward. Then his wrists were caught in
the irresistible pull. He couldn't move his arms. Looking down, he saw
the black mire high on his chest. As he watched, fascinated, the mire
rose higher. It was at his shoulders.

Keen and swift, panic struck like a knife in his belly and his arms
strained, every muscle in his body trembled with mad flight. But he
couldn't move and the mud climbed to his throat. This is _it_, he
thought, and pictures paraded through his mind, irrelevant flashes. He
saw faces, dim in the mist above him, blurred with water and the mud
in his eyes. He shook his head violently, the faces cleared. There was
choking pain in his throat. The faces were of three men, and a woman.

It was Vixen, looking down from the rock above. His head was strained
back and upward against the rope, tight on his throat. He had stopped
sinking.

"Have you found your tongue?" It was the woman's voice. "Where is the
mine? Speak! Tell me or you sink!"

Flip stared at her and could say nothing. He was smothered with the
noose on his neck. His eyes burned with the pain, with red hatred of
the woman.

"Let him down slowly." Her voice again. Flip stared up at her with mute
passion.

The mud caressed his chin, repulsive and warm. Slowly, he felt it creep
higher, moist against the back of his head.

"Speak, fool! Where is the mine?"

He stared up at her with bulging eyes, couldn't speak. Her words were
meaningless. He felt only the pain in his throat, the pressure of the
mire against his body. He knew only that he hated the voice that spoke
and that his body was weak with that hatred. The mud crawled into his
ears and the voice stopped. The mud rose to his lips. He could taste
the thick salty warmth of it. He closed his mouth tightly but the taste
remained. The mud bubbled at his nostrils. He couldn't breathe. He saw
the vast flat plain of black become level with his eyes.

The mud covered his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The air was good and he gulped at it. He was lying on the rock. He felt
his throat, wiped his face and saw somebody standing over him in the
rain. The man had a scar across his cheek.

"Try the other one." It was the woman's voice. "Perhaps the muddy
Earthian will talk to save his friend if not himself."

Flip sat up and stared at them, gathering his wits. Charlie had a rope
about his neck. The man Voss held a pistol at his back. Charlie grinned
at him.

"Proud of you, boy," he said. His right arm dangled at his side.
Failing the first time, Flip's scene was to be repeated with a new
performer.

"No," said Flip. "No! Charlie doesn't know where the mine is--he had
nothing to do with this."

"No matter," said the woman. "Perhaps seeing him in the mud will affect
your obstinacy."

"That mine's worthless," Flip said. "It's no good any more. Since
I.M.C.--"

"I know," she replied.

"Hush, Flip," said Charlie. "There's more going on than we know about.
Don't tell her. I'm an old man and--"

"Throw him in," said the woman impatiently.

Flip got to his feet, ignoring the gun in his face. Voss picked up the
end of the rope around Charlie's neck.

"Stop," said Flip. "I'll tell you." He couldn't let Charlie go through
with this. It wasn't his problem and he had a broken wrist already.

"Be quiet," said Charlie. "I don't--"

"Talk," the woman told Flip. The mine must mean a lot to her, Flip
thought. Why? He was positive about the present market price. Could the
radio report have been wrong? No. Not in a quotation affecting five
planets.

"What do you want with that mine?" Flip stalled. "You know the market
price."

"Your questions are unhealthy, Earthman. Tell me the mine's location or
your friend goes in the swamp--without a rope."

Flip told her. He didn't lie. He gave the exact Venusio-magnetic
direction he'd taken to find it. But he was sure of one thing--that
there was more here than he knew. The radio report must have been
wrong....

"You shouldn't of told her, Flip," said Charlie.

"Your life will be short if he lied," said the woman. She glanced up at
the fog. It was a shade darker than when they had come and the rain was
stronger. The mist was thickening and it was much cooler, Flip noticed.

"Come," said the woman, "we must prove his words while there is light."
She turned, walked up the rock toward the ship. "Tie them in the
cabin," she ordered over her shoulder. "If he lied, we shall return.
If he spoke truth--they have only to free themselves before they
starve...."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the men left, Flip immediately tried the rope. Pulling with all
his strength, he couldn't slacken it and, with the pain in his arm,
there was little Charlie could do.

"Lordy!!" said Flip. "What now?"

"We're lucky to be alive," said Charlie. "Captain Vixen must have taken
a fancy to you."

Flip strained at his ropes with the thought of her. Venusian women were
the beauties of the Universe and this woman had surpassed them all, but
in her dull beauty, thought Flip, there was nothing feminine. She had
no heart. She had but one emotion--the pursuit of her goal.

"It gets pretty chilly during the nights," said Charlie happily. "We'll
get pneumonia before we starve."

Flip looked helplessly about the room. They were bound to their chairs
and the ropes looped through holes in the wall. There was no way Flip
could get to Charlie and perhaps untie him. The house was of metal and
through the rusty walls and the open door came the increasing chill of
night. Captain Vixen's men had made them "comfortable," left them to
the whistling wind.

There was a draft on Flip's neck and he turned to see the rust had
eaten away a small crack behind him. Just another thing, he thought.
He was still caked with mud. Then he almost turned over his chair with
excitement. He craned his neck, saw where the rope binding him was
looped through the wall. They were two small holes, rusty as the rest.

"Charlie," he said hoarsely, "these dumb Venusians! They've tied us to
a _knife blade_!"

"What?"

"The holes they put the rope through! Look at the edges!" He began
see-sawing back and forth with his chair. The rope rubbed against the
rusty edges as he did so. "Maybe I can make it in time. It's been only
a few minutes and they've got to warm up the ship."

"You mean you're going to face them again. Saints o' Saturn! Leave well
enough alone, boy!"

Flip kept at his work. If he could get this part of the rope cut the
rest would be simple. "And let 'em get that mine? Hell no! There's
something about that xanite I don't understand and I'm going to find
out what. I'd like a nice long chat with Miss Vixen too."

Charlie gave up trying to dissuade him and Flip kept sawing. With the
mufflers, he couldn't hear the ship leave but he was sure they hadn't
gone yet. Those high-power planes took a lot of warming up, especially
with Moxims. What to do when he got there? Flip Miller's mind never
strayed far from the present.

The rope broke. It was a matter of minutes before he was free.

"Try the same thing, Charlie," Flip said at the door. "You wouldn't be
much good out there with a busted wrist and I'll be back before long."

"Maybe," said Charlie doubtfully as Flip streaked out into the rain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship loomed before him in the mist and Flip halted, some degree of
sanity entering the elation of his escape. He couldn't see through the
fogged windows, but there were three skillful guns inside and he was
unarmed. They had taken all the guns from the shack when they left.
Besides, the ship's door was closed and a strato-plane's hull is solid
metal. Though he considered it, he couldn't just go up and knock.

The rise-rockets were idling. A pink glow appeared at each blast but
there was only a soft hissing with the mufflers. The power jets hadn't
started; they were geared with a synchronized heat progression which
ignited them only when the proper temperature was reached.

A veedle scampered across Flip's foot and he jumped. If a veedle
crawled into one of those muffler tubes it would explode, he remembered
thinking when he first saw the ship. Flip snapped his fingers. If a
veedle could cause it, why not he? With mud! He could fill a power
jet and when the ignition started, it would burst like a clogged gun
barrel. They couldn't leave. Perfect!

Keeping well below the windows, he approached the ship. The power jets,
as usual, were outside and forward of the glowing rise-rockets so he
could work in safety. That is, unless the jets started while he was
near them. But he would never know it if they did.

Flip scooped up a handful of mud, stuffed it into the five-inch
opening. It was like pouring water in a veedle hole but he kept at
it, and heat from the smaller tubes blistering his hands. He could
hear people moving about inside the plane. Finally he packed one more
handful to make sure, grinning to himself.

The door in the side of the ship suddenly opened.

Flip dropped down beside the hull. It was the big fellow with the
scarred cheek. He jumped down, walked toward the rear of the ship where
Flip was. Making a take-off inspection, Flip decided. What should he
do? He could make a break across the rocks, lose himself in the mist.
No--they'd track him down, get Charlie again too. Well, there was one
thing to do then.

The man was silhouetted against the open door as he walked forward. In
the heavy mist, he couldn't see Flip yet. Crouched on hands and toes,
Flip sank lower. The muscles in his knees tensed. The man came on. Flip
shot toward him, hands outstretched.

His fingers found the thick throat, squeezed with all their might as
the force of his spring carried them both to the ground. Flip landed on
top, kept his hold on the man's neck. The fellow brought up his hands,
plucked frantically at Flip's wrists but he made only soft gurgling
sounds and soon his hands fell away. Flip turned him loose. He wasn't
dead; a little out of breath. Flip took his pistol from its holster.
To keep him quiet a while longer, he slugged a finishing touch on his
chin.

With a grin at this aesthetic work, he got to his feet. He had a gun
now. But it was still two against one--he'd learned to count the
woman--and they were inside. It would be risky entering the ship.
Better wait till somebody else came out. They'd be out looking for this
fellow soon enough. The door was still open.

Flip dragged the unconscious man under the rounded hull. Eyes on the
door, he crouched down beside him to wait.

Suddenly he remembered the mud he'd stuffed in the power jet. Wow! If
that thing exploded with him near it--! He leaped up, stuck the gun
in his belt. He reached down to drag the man away too. As he turned,
something jabbed hard in his side.

"So you haven't had enough, Earthman?" It was the other fellow, Voss.
He must have come out the other side, circled around the back.

The rockets were glowing cherry red now. The power jets would ignite
any moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Get away!" cried Flip. "I clogged a tube! It'll explode--"

"No more of your tricks, Earthman," said Voss. He yanked Flip's gun
from his belt, stuck both of them in Flip's belly.

"You fool, we'll be blown to bits."

"Shut up," said Voss, eyeing his comrade lying beside the ship. He
poked him with the toe of his boot. The man groaned, moved slightly.

Flip saw bubbles ooze from the jet he'd stopped up. It was a matter of
seconds.

Ignoring the gun, Flip hit Voss in the face. The man staggered back.
Flip whirled to run. As he turned, the mist exploded red. Something
crashed into him. An ear-splitting roar.

His head hit the rock and he was stunned for a moment. Something large
and heavy lay across him. It was quiet in the mist and the rain was
cool. It was a man's body across him. Something hot and sticky seeped
through his clothes.

Flip shoved the man aside, sat up. He looked at the man's face. It was
Voss. The back of his head was gone. His shoulders were a crimson mass
and his back and legs were shredded.

Flip got to his feet. He was covered with blood too but could find only
slight cuts. Voss had received the full force of the explosion and his
body had protected him.

"Are all Earthians so lucky?" said a voice.

Flip looked up. The woman, Captain Vixen, was standing before him in
the rain. One hand was on her hip. The other held a pistol.

Flip stared at her a long time and neither spoke.

"Lady," he said finally, "must this game go on forever?"

"Not for you," she replied.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Earthman," said the woman, "in the hills, I am Queen. On the mainland,
I am Terror. In the swamps, I am Death. Whatever defies me on this--my
planet--dies. It needs be so, for the resources of Venus have been
plunder to the Universe. Imperialism ruled until my father, king before
me, died fighting it. You, Earthman, are a symbol of those that killed
him, those that drove my people to poverty--until I came. I am a symbol
of the Venus that _was_--and, as I live, shall be again. You understand
now why you die...."

Flip looked at the woman and the rain molded her hair into golden
ringlets, the wind shaped her body in the sheer lines of an ancient
goddess. The mist softened the chill beauty of her face and her green
eyes were misty in the deepening twilight.

The wind was keen and Flip shivered.

"You are the coldest woman I ever knew," he said.

"And you are the coolest man."

"Since I am to die," said Flip, "you may tell me why you wanted that
worthless mine."

"The xanite is worthless--" She paused. "The asphalt mixed with it is
pitchblende. It was a secret of my father's that the lost Swamp Mine
holds enough _radium_ to buy the Universe--to return Venus to her
rightful place again."

She raised the pistol, took aim at his chest. Her hand was without a
tremor.

"At the swamps," said Flip, "you said you'd never killed a man."

"I spoke truth. Now I am alone--I must."

Flip heard a splash. A veedle scurried across the woman's boots. She
screamed. The mud-mouse streaked off into the mist. The woman's arms
dropped to her sides. Her eyes were wide. For a fleeting second, the
epitome of womankind was on her face. And the warmth of irrational
helplessness. Then quickly it was gone, the mask returned. She jerked
up her gun and fired. The shot went over Flip's head as he dived. His
lunge knocked her down. He snatched the pistol from her hand, hurled it
into the mist.

Pinning her arms to the ground, Flip sat upon her and laughed.

"You're a woman," he gritted, "you're a woman--afraid of a mouse!" She
struggled violently to free herself. "You're a woman, forced into a
deadly legend--a persecution complex. You're beautiful...."

He bent, kissed her full upon the lips.

She freed one arm, slapped him across the face. He didn't feel it.
There were tears in her emerald green eyes. Flip threw back his head,
roared his laughter to the wind.

He'd forgotten Captain Vixen carried two guns.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Venus Has Green Eyes, by Carl Selwyn

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK VENUS HAS GREEN EYES ***

***** This file should be named 61798-8.txt or 61798-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/7/9/61798/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
