The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Stellar Legion, by Leigh Brackett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Stellar Legion

Author: Leigh Brackett

Release Date: April 15, 2020 [EBook #61844]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STELLAR LEGION ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          THE STELLAR LEGION

                           By LEIGH BRACKETT

                  No one had ever escaped from Venus'
                 dread Stellar Legion. And, as Thekla
                    the low-Martian learned, no one
                   had ever betrayed it and--lived.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1940.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Silence was on the barracks like a lid clamped over tight-coiled
springs. Men in rumpled uniforms--outlanders of the Stellar Legion,
space-rats, the scrapings of the Solar System--sweated in the sullen
heat of the Venusian swamplands before the rains. Sweated and
listened.

The metal door clanged open to admit Lehn, the young Venusian
Commandant, and every man jerked tautly to his feet. Ian MacIan, the
white-haired, space-burned Earthman, alone and hungrily poised for
action; Thekla, the swart Martian low-canaler, grinning like a weasel
beside Bhak, the hulking strangler from Titan. Every quick nervous
glance was riveted on Lehn.

The young officer stood silent in the open door, tugging at his fair
mustache; to MacIan, watching, he was a trim, clean incongruity in this
brutal wilderness of savagery and iron men. Behind him, the eternal
mists writhed in a thin curtain over the swamp, stretching for miles
beyond the soggy earthworks; through it came the sound every ear had
listened to for days, a low, monotonous piping that seemed to ring
from the ends of the earth. The Nahali, the six-foot, scarlet-eyed
swamp-dwellers, whose touch was weapon enough, praying to their gods
for rain. When it came, the hot, torrential downpour of southern Venus,
the Nahali would burst in a scaly tide over the fort.

Only a moat of charged water and four electro-cannons stood between
the Legion and the horde. If those things failed, it meant two hundred
lives burned out, the circle of protective forts broken, the fertile
uplands plundered and laid waste. MacIan looked at Lehn's clean,
university-bred young face, and wondered cynically if he was strong
enough to do his job.

Lehn spoke, so abruptly that the men started. "I'm calling for
volunteers. A reconnaissance in Nahali territory; you know well enough
what that means. Three men. Well?"

Ian MacIan stepped forward, followed instantly by the Martian Thekla.
Bhak the Titan hesitated, his queerly bright, blank eyes darting from
Thekla to Lehn, and back to MacIan. Then he stepped up, his hairy face
twisted in a sly grin.

Lehn eyed them, his mouth hard with distaste under his fair mustache.
Then he nodded, and said; "Report in an hour, light equipment." Turning
to go, he added almost as an afterthought, "Report to my quarters,
MacIan. Immediately."

MacIan's bony Celtic face tightened and his blue eyes narrowed with
wary distrust. But he followed Lehn, his gaunt, powerful body as
ramrod-straight as the Venusian's own, and no eye that watched him go
held any friendship.

Thekla laughed silently, like a cat with his pointed white teeth. "Two
of a kind," he whispered. "I hope they choke each other!" Bhak grunted,
flexing his mighty six-fingered hands.

In his quarters, Lehn, his pink face flushed, strode up and down while
MacIan waited dourly. It was plain enough what was coming; MacIan felt
the old bitter defensive anger rising in him.

"Look," he told himself inwardly. "Books. Good cigars. A girl's picture
on the table. You had all that once, you damn fool. Why couldn't
you...."

Lehn stopped abruptly in front of him, grey eyes steady. "I'm new here,
MacIan," he said. "But we've been Legion men for five generations, and
I know the law; no man is to be questioned about his past. I'm going to
break the law. Why are you here, MacIan?"

MacIan's white head was gaunt and stubborn as Tantallon Rock, and he
kept silent.

"I'm trying to help," Lehn went on, "You've been an officer; every man
in the barracks knows that. If you're here for any reason but failure
in duty, you can be an officer again. I'll relieve you of special duty;
you can start working for the examinations. No need to waste you in the
ranks. Well?"

MacIan's eyes were hidden, but his voice was harsh. "What's behind
this, Lehn? What the hell is it to you?"

The Venusian's level gaze wavered; for a moment the boy looked through
the man, and MacIan felt a quick stab in his heart. Then all that was
gone, and Lehn said curtly.

"If you find the barracks congenial stay there, by all means.
Dismissed!"

MacIan glared at him half-blindly for a moment, his fine long hands
clenching and unclenching at his sides. Then he 'bout faced with
vicious smartness and went out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nearly an hour later he stood with the Martian Thekla on the
earthworks, waiting. The monotonous pipes prayed on in the swamp;
MacIan, looking up at the heavy sky, prayed just as hard that it would
not rain. Not just yet. Because if it rained before the patrol left,
the patrol would not leave; the Nahali would be on the march with the
very first drop.

"And my chance would be gone," he whispered to himself.

Thekla's bright black eyes studied him, as they always did; an
insolent, mocking scrutiny that angered the Scot.

"Well," he said dryly. "The perfect soldier, the gallant volunteer. For
love of Venus, Thekla, or love of the Legion?"

"Perhaps," said Thekla softly, "for the same reason you did, Earthman.
And perhaps not." His face, the swart, hard face of a low-canal outlaw,
was turned abruptly toward the mist-wrapped swamp. "Love of Venus!" he
snarled. "Who could love this lousy sweatbox? Not even Lehn, if he had
the brains of a flea!"

"Mars is better, eh?" MacIan had a sudden inspiration. "Cool dry air,
and little dark women, and the wine-shops on the Jekkara Low-canal.
You'd like to be back there, wouldn't you?"

To himself, he thought in savage pleasure, "I'll pay you out, you
little scum. You've tortured me with what I've lost, until I'd have
killed you if it hadn't been against my plan. All right, see if you can
take it!"

The slow dusk was falling; Thekla's dark face was a blur but MacIan
knew he had got home. "The fountains in the palace gardens, Thekla;
the sun bursting up over red deserts; the singing girls and the _thil_
in Madame Kan's. Remember the _thil_, Thekla? Ice cold and greenish,
bubbling in blue glasses?"

He knew why Thekla snarled and sprang at him, and it wasn't Thekla he
threw down on the soft earth so much as a tall youngster with a fair
mustache, who had goaded with good intent. Funny, thought MacIan, that
well-intentioned goads hurt worse than the other kind.

A vast paw closed on his shoulder, hauling him back. Another, he saw,
yanked Thekla upright. And Bhak the Titan's hairy travesty of a face
peered down at them.

"Listen," he grunted, in his oddly articulated Esperanto. "I know
what's up. I got ears, and village houses got thin walls. I heard the
Nahali girl talking. I don't know which one of you has the treasure,
but I want it. If I don't get it...."

His fingers slid higher on MacIan's shoulder, gripped his throat. Six
fingers, like iron clamps. MacIan heard Thekla choking and cursing; he
managed to gasp:

"You're in the wrong place, Bhak. We're men. I though you only
strangled women."

The grip slackened a trifle. "Men too," said Bhak slowly. "That's why
I had to run away from Titan. That's why I've had to run away from
everywhere. Men or women--anyone who laughs at me."

MacIan looked at the blank-eyed, revolting face, and wondered that
anyone could laugh at it. Pity it, shut it harmlessly away, but not
laugh.

Bhak's fingers fell away abruptly. "They laugh at me," he repeated
miserably, "and run away. I know I'm ugly. But I want friends and a
wife, like anyone else. Especially a wife. But they laugh at me, the
women do, when I ask them. And...." He was shaking suddenly with rage
and his face was a beast's face, blind and brutal. "And I kill them. I
kill the damned little vixens that laugh at me!"

He stared stupidly at his great hands. "Then I have to run away. Always
running away, alone." The bright, empty eyes met MacIan's with deadly
purpose. "That's why I want the money. If I have money, they'll like
me. Women always like men who have money. If I kill one of you, I'll
have to run away again. But if I have someone to go with me. I won't
mind."

Thekla showed his pointed teeth. "Try strangling a Nahali girl, Bhak.
Then we'll be rid of you."

Bhak grunted. "I'm not a fool. I know what the Nahali do to you. But I
want that money the girl told about, and I'll get it. I'd get it now,
only Lehn will come."

He stood over them, grinning. MacIan drew back, between pity and
disgust. "The Legion is certainly the System's garbage dump," he
muttered in Martian, loud enough for Thekla to hear, and smiled at the
low-canaler's stifled taunt. Stifled, because Lehn was coming up, his
heavy water-boots thudding on the soggy ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

Without a word the three fell in behind the officer, whose face had
taken on an unfamiliar stony grimness. MacIan wondered whether it was
anger at him, or fear of what they might get in the swamp. Then he
shrugged; the young cub would have to follow his own trail, wherever it
led. And MacIan took a stern comfort from this thought. His own feet
were irrevocably directed; there was no doubt, no turning back. He'd
never have again to go through what Lehn was going through. All he had
to do was wait.

The plank bridge groaned under them, almost touching the water in the
moat. Most ingenious, that moat. The Nahali could swim it in their
sleep, normally, but when the conductor rods along the bottom were
turned on, they literally burned out their circuits from an overload.
The swamp-rats packed a bigger potential than any Earthly electric eel.

Ian MacIan, looking at the lights of the squalid village that lay below
the fort, reflected that the Nahali had at least one definitely human
trait. The banging of a three-tiered Venusian piano echoed on the
heavy air, along with shouts and laughter that indicated a free flow
of "swamp juice." This link in the chain of stations surrounding the
swamplands was fully garrisoned only during the rains, and the less
warlike Nahali were busy harvesting what they could from the soldiers
and the rabble that came after them.

Queer creatures, the swamp-rats, with their ruby eyes and iridescent
scales. Nature, in adapting them to their wet, humid environment, had
left them somewhere between warm-blooded mammals and cold-blooded
reptiles, anthropoid in shape, man-sized, capricious. The most
remarkable thing about them was their breathing apparatus, each
epithelial cell forming a tiny electrolysis plant to extract oxygen
from water. Since they lived equally on land and in water, and since
the swamp air was almost a mist, it suited them admirably. That was why
they had to wait for the rains to go raiding in the fertile uplands;
and that was why hundreds of Interworld Legionnaires had to swelter on
the strip of soggy ground between swamp and plateau to stop them.

MacIan was last in line. Just as his foot left the planks, four heads
jerked up as one, facing to the darkening sky.

"Rain!"

Big drops, splattering slowly down, making a sibilant whisper across
the swamp. The pipes broke off, leaving the ears a little deafened with
the lack of them after so long. And MacIan, looking at Lehn, swore
furiously in his heart.

The three men paused, expecting an order to turn back, but Lehn waved
them on.

"But it's raining," protested Bhak. "Well get caught in the attack."

The officer's strangely hard face was turned toward them. "No," he
said, with an odd finality, "they won't attack. Not yet."

They went on, toward the swamp that was worse in silence than it had
been with the praying pipes. And MacIan, looking ahead at the oddly
assorted men plowing grimly through the mud, caught a sudden glimpse of
something dark and hidden, something beyond the simple threat of death
that hung always over a reconnoitering patrol.

       *       *       *       *       *

The swamp folded them in. It is never truly dark on Venus, owing to the
thick, diffusing atmosphere. There was enough light to show branching,
muddy trails, great still pools choked with weeds, the spreading
_liha_-trees with their huge pollen pods, everything dripping with the
slow rain. MacIan could hear the thudding of that rain for miles around
on the silent air; the sullen forerunner of the deluge.

Fort and village were lost in sodden twilight. Lehn's boots squelched
onward through the mud of a trail that rose gradually to a ridge of
higher ground. When he reached the top, Lehn turned abruptly, his
electro-gun seeming to materialize in his hand, and MacIan was startled
by the bleak look of his pink, young face.

"Stop right there," said Lehn quietly. "Keep your hands up. And don't
speak until I'm finished."

He waited a second, with the rain drumming on his waterproof coverall,
dripping from the ends of his fair mustache. The others were obedient,
Bhak a great grinning hulk between the two slighter men. Lehn went on
calmly.

"Someone has sold us out to the Nahali. That's how I know they won't
attack until they get the help they're waiting for. I had to find
out, if possible, what preparations they have made for destroying our
electrical supply, which is our only vulnerable point. But I had a
double purpose in calling this party. Can you guess what it is?"

MacIan could. Lehn continued:

"The traitor had his price; escape from the Legion, from Venus, through
the swamp to Lhiva, where he can ship out on a tramp. His one problem
was to get away from the fort without being seen, since all leaves have
been temporarily cancelled."

Lehn's mist-grey eyes were icy. "I gave him that chance."

Bhak laughed, an empty, jarring road. "See? That's what the Nahali girl
said. She said, 'He can get what he needs, now. He'll get away before
the rains, probably with a patrol; then our people can attack.' I know
what he needed. Money! And I want it."

"Shut up!" Lehn's electro-gun gestured peremptorily. "I want the truth
of this. Which one of you is the traitor?"

Thekla's pointed white teeth gleamed. "MacIan loves the Legion, sir.
_He_ couldn't be guilty."

Lehn's gaze crossed MacIan's briefly, and again the Scot had a fleeting
glimpse of something softer beneath the new hardness. It was something
that took him back across time to a day when he had been a green
subaltern in the Terran Guards, and a hard-bitten, battle-tempered
senior officer had filled the horizon for him.

It was the something that had made Lehn offer him a chance, when
his trap was set and sprung. It was the something that was going to
make Lehn harder on him now than on either Bhak or Thekla. It was
hero-worship.

MacIan groaned inwardly. "Look here," he said. "We're in Nahali
country. There may be trouble at any moment. Do you think this is the
time for detective work? You may have caught the wrong men anyway.
Better do your job of reconnoitering, and worry about the identity of
the traitor back in the fort."

"You're not an officer now, MacIan!" snapped Lehn. "Speak up, and I
want the truth. You, Thekla!"

Thekla's black eyes were bitter. "I'd as well be here as anywhere,
since I can't be on Mars. How could I go back, with a hanging charge
against me?"

"MacIan?" Lehn's grey gaze was levelled stiffly past his head. And
MacIan was quivering suddenly with rage; rage against the life that had
brought him where he was, against Lehn, who was the symbol of all he
had thrown away.

"Think what you like," he whispered, "and be damned!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Bhak's movement came so swiftly that it caught everyone unprepared.
Handling the Martian like a child's beanbag, he picked him up and
hurled him against Lehn. The electro-gun spat a harmless bolt into
empty air as the two fell struggling in the mud. MacIan sprang forward,
but Bhak's great fingers closed on his neck. With his free hand, the
Titan dragged Thekla upright; he held them both helpless while he
kicked the sprawling Lehn in the temple.

In the split second before unconsciousness took him, Lehn's eyes met
MacIan's and they were terrible eyes. MacIan groaned, "You young fool!"
Then Lehn was down, and Bhak's fingers were throttling him.

"Which one?" snarled the Titan. "Give me the money, and I'll let you
go. I'm going to have the money, if I have to kill you. Then the girls
won't laugh at me. Tell me. Which one?"

MacIan's blue eyes widened suddenly. With all his strength he fought to
croak out one word: "Nahali!"

Bhak dropped them with a grunt. Swinging his great hands, forgetting
his gun completely, he stood at bay. There was a rush of bodies in
the rain-blurred dusk, a flash of scarlet eyes and triangular mouths
laughing in queer, noseless faces. Then there were scaly, man-like
things hurled like battering-rams against the Legionnaires.

MacIan's gun spat blue flame; two Nahali fell, electrocuted, but there
were too many of them. His helmet was torn off, so that his drenched
white hair blinded him; rubber-shod fists and feet lashed against
reptilian flesh. Somewhere just out of sight, Thekla was cursing
breathlessly in low-canal argot. And Lehn, still dazed, was crawling
gamely to his feet; his helmet had protected him from the full force of
Bhak's kick.

The hulking Titan loomed in the midst of a swarm of red-eyed
swamp-rats. And MacIan saw abruptly that he had taken off his clumsy
gloves when he had made ready to strangle his mates. The great
six-fingered hands stretched hungrily toward a Nahali throat.

"Bhak!" yelled MacIan. "_Don't_...!"

The Titan's heavy laughter drowned him out; the vast paws closed in
a joyous grip. On the instant, Bhak's great body bent and jerked
convulsively; he slumped down, the heart burned out of him by the
electricity circuited through his hands.

Lehn's gun spoke. There was a reek of ozone, and a Nahali screamed
like a stricken reptile. The Venusian cried out in sudden pain, and
was silent; MacIan, struggling upright, saw him buried under a pile of
scaly bodies. Then a clammy paw touched his own face. He moaned as a
numbing shock struck through him, and lapsed into semi-consciousness.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had vague memories of being alternately carried and towed through
warm lakes and across solid ground. He knew dimly that he was dumped
roughly under a _liha_-tree in a clearing where there were thatched
huts, and that he was alone.

After what seemed a very long time he sat up, and his surroundings were
clear. Even more clear was Thekla's thin dark face peering amusedly
down at him.

The Martian bared his pointed white teeth, and said, "Hello, traitor."

MacIan would have risen and struck him, only that he was weak and
dizzy. And then he saw that Thekla had a gun.

His own holster was empty. MacIan got slowly to his feet, raking the
white hair out of his eyes, and he said, "You dirty little rat!"

Thekla laughed, as a fox might laugh at a baffled hound. "Go ahead and
curse me, MacIan. You high-and-mighty renegade! You were right; I'd
rather swing on Mars than live another month in this damned sweatbox!
And I can laugh at you, Ian MacIan! I'm going back to the deserts and
the wine-shops on the Jekkara Low-canal. The Nahali girl didn't mean
money; she meant plastic surgery, to give me another face. I'm free.
And you're going to die, right here in the filthy mud!"

A slow, grim smile touched MacIan's face, but he said nothing.

"Oh, I understand," said Thekla mockingly. "You fallen swells and your
honor! But you won't die honorably, any more than you've lived that
way."

MacIan's eyes were contemptuous and untroubled.

The pointed teeth gleamed. "You don't understand, MacIan. Lehn isn't
going to die. He's going back to face the music, after his post is
wiped out. I don't know what they'll do to him, but it won't be nice.
And remember, MacIan, he thinks you sold him out. He thinks _you_ cost
him his post, his men, his career: his honor, you scut! Think that over
when the swamp-rats go to work on you--they like a little fun now and
then--and remember I'm laughing!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MacIan was silent for a long time, hands clenched at his sides, his
craggy face carved in dark stone under his dripping white hair. Then he
whispered, "Why?"

Thekla's eyes met his in sudden intense hate. "Because I want to see
your damned proud, supercilious noses rubbed in the dirt!"

MacIan nodded. His face was strange, as though a curtain had been drawn
over it. "Where's Lehn?"

Thekla pointed to the nearest hut. "But it won't do you any good. The
rats gave him an overdose, accidentally, of course, and he's out for a
long time."

MacIan went unsteadily toward the hut through rain. Over his shoulder
he heard Thekla's voice: "Don't try anything funny, MacIan. I can shoot
you down before you're anywhere near an escape, even if you could find
your way back without me. The Nahali are gathering now, all over the
swamp; within half an hour they'll march on the fort, and then on to
the plateaus. They'll send my escort before they go, but you and Lehn
will have to wait until they come back. You can think of me while
you're waiting to die, MacIan; me, going to Lhiva and freedom!"

MacIan didn't answer. The rhythm of the rain changed from a slow
drumming to a rapid, vicious hiss; he could see it, almost smoking
in the broad leaves of the _liha_-trees. The drops cut his body like
whips, and he realized for the first time that he was stripped to
trousers and shirt. Without his protective rubber coverall, Thekla
could electrocute him far quicker even than a Nahali, with his service
pistol.

The hut, which had been very close, was suddenly far off, so far he
could hardly see it. The muddy ground swooped and swayed underfoot.
MacIan jerked himself savagely erect. Fever. Any fool who prowled the
swamp without proper covering was a sure victim. He looked back at
Thekla, safe in helmet and coverall, grinning like a weasel under the
shelter of a pod-hung tree-branch.

The hut came back into proper perspective. Aching, trembling suddenly
with icy cold, he stooped and entered. Lehn lay there, dry but stripped
like MacIan, his young face slack in unconsciousness. MacIan raised a
hand, let it fall limply back. Lehn was still paralyzed from the shock.
It might be hours, even days before he came out of it. Perhaps never,
if he wasn't cared for properly.

MacIan must have gone a little mad then, from the fever and the shock
to his own brain, and Thekla. He took Lehn's shirt in both hands and
shook him, as though to beat sense back into his brain, and shouted at
him in hoarse savagery.

"All I wanted was to die! That's what I came to the Legion for, to die
like a soldier because I couldn't live like an officer. But it had to
be honorably, Lehn! Otherwise...."

He broke off in a fit of shivering, and his blue eyes glared under
his white, tumbled hair. "You robbed me of that, damn you! You and
Thekla. You trapped me. You wouldn't even let me die decently. I was
an officer, Lehn, like you. Do you hear me, young fool? I had to
choose between two courses, and I chose the wrong one. I lost my whole
command. Twenty-five hundred men, dead.

"They might have let me off at the court-martial. It was an honest
mistake. But I didn't wait. I resigned. All I wanted was to die like a
good soldier. That's why I volunteered. And you tricked me, Lehn! You
and Thekla."

He let the limp body fall and crouched there, holding his throbbing
head in his hands. He knew he was crying, and couldn't stop. His skin
burned, and he was cold to the marrow of his bones.

Suddenly he looked at Lehn out of bright, fever-mad eyes. "Very well,"
he whispered. "I won't die. You can't kill me, you and Thekla, and you
go on believing I betrayed you. I'll take you back, you two, and fight
it out. I'll keep the Nahali from taking the fort, so you can't say I
sold it out. I'll make you believe me!"

From somewhere, far off, he heard Thekla laugh.

       *       *       *       *       *

MacIan huddled there for some time, his brain whirling. Through the
rain-beat and the fever-mist in his head and the alternate burning and
freezing that racked his body, certain truths shot at him like stones
from a sling.

Thekla had a gun that shot a stream of electricity. A gun designed for
Nahali, whose nervous systems were built to carry a certain load and
no more, like any set of wires. The low frequency discharge was strong
enough to kill a normal man only under ideal conditions; and these
conditions were uniquely ideal. Wet clothes, wet skin, wet ground, even
the air saturated.

Then there were metal and rubber. Metal in his belt, in Lehn's belt;
metal mesh, because the damp air rotted everything else. Rubber on his
feet, on Lehn's feet. Rubber was insulation. Metal was a conductor.

MacIan realized with part of his mind that he must be mad to do what he
planned to do. But he went to work just the same.

Ten minutes later he left the hut and crossed the soaking clearing
in the downpour. Thekla had left the _liha_-tree for a hut directly
opposite Lehn's; he rose warily in the doorway, gun ready. His sly
black eyes took in MacIan's wild blue gaze, the fever spots burning on
his lean cheekbones, and he smiled.

"Get on back to the hut," he said. "Be a pity if you die before the
Nahali have a chance to try electro-therapy."

MacIan didn't pause. His right arm was hidden behind his back. Thekla's
jaw tightened. "Get back or I'll kill you!"

MacIan's boots sucked in the mud. The beating rain streamed from his
white hair, over his craggy face and gaunt shoulders. And he didn't
hesitate.

Thekla's pointed teeth gleamed in a sudden snarl. His thumb snapped the
trigger; a bolt of blue flame hissed toward the striding Scot.

MacIan's right hand shot out in the instant the gun spoke. One of
Lehn's rubber boots cased his arm almost to the shoulder, and around
the ankle of it a length of metal was made fast; two mesh belts linked
together. The spitting blue fire was gathered to the metal circle, shot
down the coupled lengths, and died in the ground.

The pistol sputtered out as a coil fused. Thekla cursed and flung it
at MacIan's head. The Scot dodged it, and broke into a run, dropping
Lehn's boot that his hands might be free to grapple.

Thekla fought like a low-canal rat, but MacIan was bigger and beyond
himself with the first madness of fever. He beat the little Martian
down and bound him with his own belt, and then went looking for his
clothes and gun.

He found them, with Lehn's, in the hut next door. His belt pouch
yielded quinine; he gulped a large dose and felt better. After he had
dressed, he went and wrestled Lehn into his coverall and helmet and
dragged him out beside Thekla, who was groaning back to consciousness
in the mud.

Looking up, MacIan saw three Nahali men watching him warily out of
scarlet eyes as they slunk toward him.

Thekla's escort. And it was a near thing. Twice clammy paws seared
his face before he sent them writhing down into the mud, jerking as
the overload beat through their nervous systems. Triangular mouths
gaped in noseless faces, hand-like paws tore convulsively at scaly
breast-plates, and MacIan, as he watched them die, said calmly:

"There will be hundreds of them storming the fort. My gun won't be
enough. But somehow I've got to stop them."

No answer now. He shrugged and kicked Thekla erect. "Back to the fort,
scut," he ordered, and laughed. The linked belts were fastened now
around Thekla's neck, the other end hooked to the muzzle of MacIan's
gun, so that the slightest rough pull would discharge it. "What if I
stumble?" Thekla snarled, and MacIan answered, "You'd better not!"

Lehn was big and heavy, but somehow MacIan got him across his
shoulders. And they started off.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fringe of the swamp was in sight when MacIan's brain became
momentarily lucid. Another dose of quinine drove the mists back, so
that the fort, some fifty yards away, assumed its proper focus. MacIan
dropped Lehn on his back in the mud and stood looking, his hand ready
on his gun.

The village swarmed with swamp-rats in the slow, watery dawn. They were
ranged in a solid mass along the edges of the moat, and the fort's
guns were silent MacIan wondered why, until he saw that the dam that
furnished power for the turbine had been broken down.

Thekla laughed silently. "My idea, MacIan. The Nahali would never have
thought of it themselves. They can't drown, you know. I showed them
how to sneak into the reservoir, right under the fort's guns, and stay
under water, loosening the stones around the spillway. The pressure did
the rest. Now there's no power for the big guns, nor the conductor rods
in the moat."

He turned feral black eyes on MacIan. "You've made a fool of yourself.
You can't stop those swamp-rats from tearing the fort apart. You can't
stop me from getting away, after they're through. You can't stop Lehn
from thinking what he does. You haven't changed anything by these
damned heroics!"

"Heroics!" said MacIan hoarsely, and laughed. "Maybe." With sudden
viciousness he threw the end of the linked belts over a low
_liha_-branch, so that Thekla had to stand on tiptoe to keep from
strangling. Then, staring blindly at the beleagured fort, he tried to
beat sense out of his throbbing head.

"There was something," he whispered. "Something I was saying back
in the swamp. Something my mind was trying to tell me, only I was
delirious. What was it, Thekla?"

The Martian was silent, the bloody grin set on his dark face. MacIan
took him by the shoulders and shook him. "What was it?"

Thekla choked and struggled as the metal halter tightened. "Nothing,
you fool! Nothing but Nahali and _liha_-trees."

"_Liha_-trees!" MacIan's fever-bright eyes went to the great green
pollen-pods hung among the broad leaves. He shivered, partly with
chill, partly with exultation. And he began like a madman to strip Lehn
and Thekla of their rubber coveralls.

Lehn's, because it was larger, he tented over two low branches.
Thekla's he spread on the ground beneath. Then he tore down pod after
pod from the _liha_-tree, breaking open the shells under the shelter of
the improvised tent, pouring out the green powder on the groundcloth.

When he had a two-foot pile, he stood back and fired a bolt of
electricity into the heart of it.

Thick, oily black smoke poured up, slowly at first, then faster and
faster as the fire took hold. A sluggish breeze was blowing out of
the swamp, drawn by the cooler uplands beyond the fort; it took the
smoke and sent it rolling toward the packed and struggling mass on the
earthworks.

Out on the battlefield, Nahali stiffened suddenly, fell tearing
convulsively at their bodies. The beating rain washed the soot down
onto them harder and harder, streaked it away, left a dull film over
the reptilian skins, the scaly breast-plates. More and more of them fell
as the smoke rolled thicker, fed by the blackened madman under the
_liha_-tree, until only Legionnaires were left standing in its path,
staring dumbly at the stricken swamp-rats.

The squirming bodies stilled in death. Hundreds more, out on the edges
of the smoke, seeing their comrades die, fled back into the swamp. The
earthworks were cleared. Ian MacIan gave one wild shout that carried
clear to the fort. Then he collapsed, crouched shivering beside the
unconscious Lehn, babbling incoherently.

Thekla, strained on tiptoe under the tree-branch, had stopped smiling.

The fever-mists rolled away at last. MacIan woke to see Lehn's pink
young face, rather less pink than usual, bending over him.

Lehn's hand came out awkwardly. "I'm sorry, MacIan. Thekla told me;
I made him. I should have known." His grey eyes were ashamed. MacIan
smiled and gripped his hand with what strength the fever had left him.

"My own fault, boy. Forget it."

Lehn sat down on the bed. "What did you do to the swamp-rats?" he
demanded eagerly. "They all have a coating as though they'd been dipped
in paraffin!"

MacIan chuckled. "In a way, they were. You know how they breathe; each
skin cell forming a miniature electrolysis plant to extract oxygen from
water. Well, it extracts hydrogen too, naturally, and the hydrogen is
continually being given off, just as we give off carbon dioxide.

"Black smoke means soot, soot means carbon. Carbon plus hydrogen forms
various waxy hydrocarbons. Wax is impervious to both water and air.
So when the oily soot from the smoke united with the hydrogen exuded
from the Nahali's bodies, it sealed away the life-giving water from
the skin-cells. They literally smothered to death, like an Earthly ant
doused with powder."

Lehn nodded. He was quiet for a long time, his eyes on the sick-bay's
well-scrubbed floor. At length, he said:

"My offer still goes, MacIan. Officer's examinations. One mistake, an
honest one, shouldn't rob you of your life. You don't even know that it
would have made any difference if your decision had been the other way.
Perhaps there was no way out."

MacIan's white head nodded on the pillow.

"Perhaps I will, Lehn. Something Thekla said set me thinking. He said
he'd rather die on Mars than live another month in exile. I'm an exile
too, Lehn, in a different way. Yes, I think I'll try it. And if I fail
again--" he shrugged and smiled--"there are always Nahali."

It seemed for a minute after that as though he had gone to sleep. Then
he murmured, so low that Lehn had to bend down to hear him:

"Thekla will hang after the court-martial. Can you see that they take
him back to Mars, first?"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Stellar Legion, by Leigh Brackett

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STELLAR LEGION ***

***** This file should be named 61844.txt or 61844.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/8/4/61844/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
