The Project Gutenberg EBook of Revolt on Io, by Nelson S. Bond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Revolt on Io

Author: Nelson S. Bond

Release Date: April 17, 2020 [EBook #61858]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REVOLT ON IO ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             REVOLT ON IO

                            By NELSON BOND

                    Death stalked the _Libra_. The
                  Io-plunging space liner freighted a
                 secret weapon, and the rebel Kreuther
                    had vowed it should not arrive.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The ship's clock bonged drowsily three times. Bud Chandler, the junior
watch, glared at it languidly. "Thus," he yawned, "endeth the lobster
patrol. Three bells, my fine bucko--and the soft, warm hay for you.
Or--" There was a hopeful note in his voice. "Or would you like to
finish out my trick for me? I'll stand double for _you_ some night."

Dan Mallory said, "Comets to you, sailor!" And he rose, stretching
the kinks out of weary muscles. His collar was open at the throat,
his back ached from five solid hours in the bucket-shaped control
chair. His eyes were strained. That was from peering alternately at
glowing panels, through a _perilens_ plate into the murky, blue-black
space before the void-hurtling _Libra_, and back to the panels again.
"There's a little thing called sleep which I'm going to grab some of.
As soon as Norton shows up. Where the pink Cepheids--?"

"Tell you what. Finish my trick tonight, Dan, and I'll double for you
_twice_. That's fair enough, isn't it?"

"Fair enough," said Mallory, "but not sufficiently enticing. Like an
albino on a desert planetoid. Ah, here's our hero now! Welcome, Sir
Relief! Dump it into the basket and let poppa go seek the arms of
Morpheus."

"Who's she?" growled Rick Norton, Third Mate. His eyes were puffy; he
squinted and glared at the bright lights of the control turret. "Hell's
howling acres, I'm tired! I just about got to sleep when--Oh, well. Log
in order?"

"Directly." Mallory shot a curious glance at Norton. "Just got to
sleep? How come? What were you doing up so late?"

"It wasn't official business," answered the junior officer curtly,
"so it's none of yours. Let's have your log sheet." He slumped into
the control chair, squinted through the _perilens_ and made a few
tiny course corrections. Across the room, Bud Chandler's shoulders
shrugged a reply to Dan's swift lift of the eyebrows. The Second Mate's
lips formed a word. "Sore-head!" Mallory nodded. Norton _was_ a surly
son-of-a-spacewrangler.

But that wasn't any skin off his nose. He went to the chart table.
Footsteps clattered up the Jacob's ladder, the door flew open and the
Old Man stomped onto the bridge. He snapped, "'Zuwere!" and glowered
over Mallory's shoulder, shrewd, space-faded eyes reading sense into
the senior lieutenant's neat, precise columns. He jabbed a horny finger
at one line of figures. "Sure o' that, Mallory? Velocity that high?"

Mallory said respectfully, "Yes, sir. All figures have been checked
and double checked. We're point oh-oh-one on course. Forced speed,
point thirty-nine above normal."

"Checked and double checked," said Captain Algase, "is good enough most
of the time. But this trip is special. And vitally important. Forty
thousand innocent lives depend on our reaching Io damn soon! Remember
that, Mallory. All of you remember that."

The stern lines of his face eased a trifle. "It's been a hard shuttle,
I know. A brutal, punishing trip. And we've all been under a terrific
strain. But our difficulties are nothing compared to those of the
garrison and the honest colonists of New Fresno. They're looking to us
for aid, and we're bringing them aid.

"That is, someone aboard this ship is. I honestly don't know who that
person is. No one knows except the man himself, the commander of the
SSP Intelligence Department on Earth, and maybe someone at New Fresno.
But he _is_ on board, either an officer, sailor or passenger, and he
_is_ carrying to Io the plans for the new ray weapon recently perfected
by the SSP Ordnance Bureau.

"Those plans will enable our New Fresno garrison to subdue this
mysterious uprising on Io. That's why the _Libra_ is traveling at
forced speed. That's why we must redouble every normal precaution to
insure our reaching the Io colony. That's why, too, we must keep our
eyes open; watch even each other. What's the matter with you, Norton?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Norton had started suddenly. Now he muttered, red-faced, "Sorry, sir.
Sudden light in the visiplate. It looked like a meteoride."

"There's nothing there now," said the skipper.

But Chandler repeated, "Watch each other, Captain? I don't get it.
We're all pledged and trusted members of the Solar Space Patrol, aren't
we? We all live by the SSP motto. I don't see--" He fingered his breast
insignia, that tiny, golden rocket emblazoned with the words, _Order
out of Chaos_. "I don't see why we should--"

"Because," explained the skipper grimly, "wherever there's an uprising
there are converts to the new cause, traitors to the old. Where there
are plans, there are spies to steal them. That's not a warning from
H.Q.; that's plain, old-fashioned horse-sense. I fought through the
Rollie Rebellion, you know. After the Grantland massacre I discovered
that one of my own messmates was in the pay of the Mercurians.

"I won't say for sure that there is a spy aboard the _Libra_. But if
there is, we must give him no opportunity to learn anything. Weary or
not, we must remain on the alert at all times. But I needn't say any
more. Finished, Mallory?"

"Yes, sir. Log in order, sir."

"Very good. You may retire. Chandler, you seem to be fagged."

Bud said, "One more yawn and I'll be a zombie."

"A gabby zombie?" sniffed the Old Man. "I'll finish your trick for you.
Go get some rest." Still glowering, he plumped himself into the seat
vacated by Chandler, cut in the intercommunications board, audioed the
radio turret. "Is that you, Sparks? Wake up, you lazy scut! Any news
from the Earth? Or Mars Central?"

The radioman's voice clacked metallically, "No, sir. I can't get
through to any station. The rebel forces at New Fresno are still
jamming the ether with static interference on all wave bands."

"Well, keep trying. Let me know if you get through. Well?" The skipper
glanced back over his shoulder. "Well, I thought you two were tired?
What are you waiting for? Want to stand another trick apiece?"

"No, sir!" said both men hastily. "We're leaving, sir!" They fled.

"Ain't he a whipper, though?" asked Chandler affectionately. "He growls
like a terrier pup, but he's got no more bite than a cup custard.
'Scuse me!" A gigantic yawn split his grin in two. "Must have been
something I et!"

"The hell of it is," said Mallory ruefully, "now I'm off duty, I'm not
a bit tired. I wasn't tired at all, really. Just had hardening of the
panties from squatting in that seat so long. Got a cigarette?"

Chandler tossed him a package. "And don't swipe the coupon, either.
Six thousand more and I get an electronic microscope. Well, you can do
what you like. I'm going bye-bye and try to forget the waffles that
bucket-seat has pressed into my hip pockets. 'Night, pal!"

His footsteps rang sharp little echoes on the metal flooring, echoes
that hollowed as he disappeared down a corridor leading to the sleeping
quarters and Mallory turned toward the observation deck.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tall First Mate leaned against the heavy quartzite pane staring
into the depths of space through which the _Libra_ scudded. The sight
was no novelty to him, but as ever it wakened in his heart a sense of
awe, a feeling of weird instability, a sort of pride in Man that he,
of all the many, strange life-forms experimenting nature had devised,
should so far be the only one whose imagination was so great, whose
curiosity was so strong, that he had found a way to fling himself at
blinding speed across the broad, unfathomable reaches of the void.

It was disheartening to realize that even though he had attained the
stars, Man had not yet sloughed off the instincts and habits of the
ape from which he sprang. Man's genius had blazed a path across the
spaceways, Man's bravery had established new colonies from scorching
Mercury to frozen Uranus. SSP lightships bridged the chasms between and
beyond; even now the concentrated rays of faraway Sol were steaming the
rimy crust off Pluto that Earth's miners might extract the valuable
ores revealed by the spectroscope. But with the growth of the colonies,
Man's ever latent cupidity had come into play. This past half century,
thought Dan Mallory with a sort of savage anger, had been nothing but
one long, bloody era of warfare between the forces of law and the
outlawry of the greedy.

Now there was this uprising on the first satellite of Jupiter; Io. A
charming little world. A pleasant Earth-like orb, spinning quietly
about its gigantic parent. Up to this time, its natives had never been
troublesome. Squat, muscular creatures, more or less anthropoid, except
for the fact that their complexions had a pale, greenish cast and their
eyes were double-lidded like those of snakes. They had an intelligence
of .63 on the Solar Constant scale. Within a century or so the control
board meant to award them autonomy; toward this end educators had been
working ever since Io had been removed from the British Imperial
Protectorate in 2221.

Trouble had sprung, both literally and figuratively, like a bolt from
the blue. A cosmic _blitzkrieg_. One moment there had been peace and
sweet content on Io; the next came a frantic, garbled message about "a
rebel army ... natives ... led by...." The rest had been drowned in
an ear-drum blasting burst of electronic static that had rendered all
further communication impossible.

"Kreuther!" said Mallory thoughtfully. The affair sounded like one
of Kreuther's moves. That power-mad genius, exiled from Earth after
the thwarted Lunar Campaign of 2234, was accustomed to strike in just
this fashion. He alone, of all avowed SSP enemies, had the persuasive
ability to win to his cause a horde of normally contented Ionians, the
wealth with which to set into motion war's red machinery, the genius
with which to disrupt interplanetary communications.

"But if it is Kreuther," thought Mallory consolingly, "this time he's
bitten off more than he can chew. That new weapon--" He wondered,
briefly, which officer, sailor, passenger, had been entrusted with the
secret of the new ray gun's construction. Then he cast the thought from
his mind. It was none of his business. It were better he didn't know.

It was at that stage of his reverie that a sudden byplay of movement
captured his attention. In an instant he had cupped his cigarette into
his palm, stepped into a dark patch of shadow. A figure had glided
from the passageway that led to the sleeping quarters, was now peering
uncertainly into the observation deck. It was David Wilmot, one of the
six passengers aboard the _Libra_.

Wilmot's thin face was pinched with nervousness; he coughed, a thin
little hacking sound in the muted quiet, then put the back of his hand
to his mouth. Dan stood motionless, his dark uniform blending perfectly
with the drapes that concealed him. As he waited, watching, the door
at the far end of the deck opened, a short, plump man in night-robe
entered. Wilmot sprang forward eagerly. His whisper carried to Dan's
keen ears. "Have you got them, Doctor?"

"Quiet, you fool!" Dr. Bonetti's forehead creased angrily; his
eyeglasses reflected a subdued light owlishly. He fumbled in his
pocket, passed something white to the other man. "Here! But not a word,
about this, mind you!"

"I know. I know." Wilmot seized the papers avidly, turned and fled down
the corridor whence he had emerged. The doctor stared after him for a
moment, shook his head regretfully, then disappeared. The door closed
behind him softly.

"_That's why, too, we must keep our eyes open--._"

The skipper's words echoed in Dan Mallory's memory as he stepped from
his hiding place, brow furrowed. What the devil was going on here?
Could Bonetti have been the bearer of the secret plans; could Wilmot
have been the spy? Had he just witnessed the sell-out of a traitor?

But before he could get his jumbled thoughts into order, a voice
addressed him from behind, gravely, quietly.

"Rather confusing, eh, Lieutenant?"

Dan whirled to look into the face of Garland Smith, another of the
_Libra's_ passengers. He said, half pettishly, "You, Captain? What are
_you_ doing up at this time of night?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The one-time officer of the SSP, now on the retired list, shot a swift
glance at the glittering panorama visible through the quartzite plates.

"Night, Lieutenant? Night and day are nothing but quirks of speech out
here, sleep a matter of habit. When you have lifted gravs as many years
as _I_ have--" He sighed. "I was restless. And perhaps it is just as
well. I witnessed the same thing you did. And strange things are going
on aboard the _Libra_."

Mallory said cautiously, "Perhaps you're too apprehensive, Captain.
Just because two passengers are sleepless like yourself, meet in the
observation chamber--"

"They're not the only two who are still awake. The whole slumbering
ship stirs with movement, my boy. A moment or so before you arrived I
saw Albert Lemming stealing down the No. 2 corridor--and 'stealing' is
the only word that describes his progress. Before that, Mrs. Wilmot had
a secret rendezvous with some one in the smoking room; I don't know who
her companion was. And Lady Alice has not been in her cabin all night."

The older man's eyes sought Mallory's, his gaze was piercing.

"My boy, I realize that I no longer rank you. But not so long ago, I
was your senior. Once a Patrolman, always a Patrolman, you know. I feel
we are in the midst of an intrigue too weighty for one man to solve.
Perhaps the experience of an old officer may help. Tell me, is it true
what I have heard? That someone aboard this vessel is carrying to the
New Fresno garrison the secret of Earth's new ray weapon? If so, the
mysterious actions we've witnessed may be espionage, agents of the
Kreuther forces--"

Mallory said respectfully, "I'm very sorry, sir. I am not permitted
to say anything. But I would suggest that in the morning you speak to
Captain Algase. I'm sure he'll welcome your offer of assistance." His
face clouded. Slowly he said, "Lady Alice. Where did you see her last?"

"In the reading room."

Mallory saluted, turned and went to the ship's library. As he walked he
found himself hoping, why, he did not try to explain to himself, that
he would find the room empty. But it was not. A single lamp was lighted
inside. As Mallory pressed open the door, shadows danced on the farther
wall; the wavering, unidimensional symbol of an upright figure spun
and made swift, jabbing motions, dropped. There was a sound of paper
rustling, the rough scrape of calfskin on buckram. Then he was in the
room, and Lady Alice was seated beside the refectory table, ostensibly
reading a book. She glanced up with a little movement of surprise.

"Why, Lieutenant, what a pleasant surprise!"

Mallory stifled the impulse to say, "Pleasant?" He stared at the girl
curiously, reminding himself for the hundredth time since she had come
aboard this ship, six days ago, that as man and woman they had no
common meeting ground, they lived on planes inordinately diverse. He
was Dan Mallory, a Lieutenant of the Solar Space Patrol, a respectable,
if underpaid, watchdog of law and order in man's widening circle of
influence. Moreover, he was a _young_ lieutenant. It would be years
before he earned a major brevet, became an acceptable social figure.
Even if a miracle were to happen, if he were to be selected into the
envied corps of Lensmen, he would only be a super-cop. While she....

She was Lady Alice Charwell, possessor of a name and title respected
for more than eight hundred years. Of course the title was now one
of courtesy only; there was no Duchy of Io since the cession of that
satellite to the World Council. But once her father had been manor lord
of the entire globe; in the _Almanach de Gotha_ her family name and
crest still figured prominently.

All of which had little to do with the fact that her eyes were blue as
the morning mists of Venus, that her limbs were white and straight and
supple, softly feminine despite the mannish slack and shirt ensemble
she affected, that her hair was a seine of sunlight gold that snared
Dan Mallory's heart and quickened his breath.

He forced his voice to calmness. He said, "Lady Alice, don't you think
it would be better if you were to go to bed? This--this staying up at
night--"

Her laughter was warm and delicious.

"But, Lieutenant! Surely there's no harm in my reading myself to sleep?"

"Not a bit," agreed Mallory. He bit his lip. "I might suggest, though,
that unless you're reading a book in the Lower Venusian language, it
would be easier to read if the book were right side up. And--" He
walked past her, swiftly, stared at the book which, hastily thrust back
into the bookcase, still jutted out beyond its fellows. "And you might
find more interesting reading matter than a tactical survey of Ionian
military resources."

The girl's face was scarlet. She came to her feet indignantly. "Really,
Lieutenant, you go too far! I don't see that it is any of your
business."

"Lady Alice," said Mallory pleadingly, "a state of war exists on Io.
Strange things are happening aboard the _Libra_, things the exact
nature of which I am not at liberty to explain. If you will try to
forget, for a moment, that I am a space officer--just think of me as a
man--will you allow me to make the suggestion that you do absolutely
nothing to lay your actions, your motives, open to any sort of
suspicion?

"I realize that as one who inherited a claim to the title, 'Duchess
of Io,' you are deeply interested in current affairs on that colony.
Others may read another meaning into your actions, though. At least one
person has already hinted that you--"

Lady Alice's breathing was swift. "Who?" she demanded. "Who is this
person?"

"I'm sorry. I can't say. But will you do as I suggest?"

There was a moment of silence. Then the girl shut the book on her lap,
laid it on the table, rose. "Very well, Lieutenant. I'm a rather poor
deceiver, aren't I? Nevertheless, I thank you for your well-meant
advice." She moved toward the doorway, grace and poise in her every
stride. And she turned there to smile back at him, her voice soft
and unamused. "Lieutenant," she said, "you should lay aside your
shoulder-straps more often. The man beneath is most--interesting."

Then she was gone, leaving behind her a red-faced, speechless, utterly
chaotic Dan Mallory.

       *       *       *       *       *

At breakfast, Mallory presided at the head of the table. Bud Chandler,
arriving a few minutes late, stared at his comrade surprisedly.

"Why, Skipper!" he said, "What this trip is doing for your complexion!
You look thirty years younger. Where did you get them pretty pink
cheeks?"

Mallory growled, "Sit down, pal, and shut up. The Old Man's grabbing
forty, and he deserves 'em. He and Norton ran into a loft-bound vacuole
last night, had a hell of a time pulling out. Didn't you hear the
commotion?"

"All I heard," complained Bud, "was somebody in my room snoring. It
woke me up once, and what made me maddest was when I found out it was
me." He nodded to the assembled passengers, sat down and made wry faces
over his grapefruit juice.

Albert Lemming, the swarthy-skinned jewel merchant en route to his
company's headquarters in New Fresno, stared at the acting-Captain
curiously.

"A vacuole, Lieutenant? What's that?"

"A hole in space. Something like an air-pocket in the ether. They
aren't particularly dangerous, but the one we ran into was whirling in
the wrong direction; if Captain Algase hadn't pulled us out, we'd have
lost time on our trip to Io."

Mrs. Wilmot looked up. She was not, thought Mallory, a bad looking
dame--if you went for that sharp, peaked sort of beauty. But there was
a touch of cruelty to the cut of her lips, a pinched look about the
nostrils, he didn't go for. And her eyes were too close together. She
said, "That would be unfortunate, wouldn't it, Lieutenant? Losing time,
I mean?"

There was a touch of some subtler meaning behind her words; Mallory
couldn't decide just what it was. Maybe it was sarcasm, maybe it was
fear, maybe it was mockery. He said, "I think we all share the desire
to reach New Fresno as soon as possible, don't we?"

Her answer was unexpectedly sharp.

"I don't care if we never reach there. I'd rather die peacefully in
space than--"

"_Susan!_" Her husband's voice sheared the end of the sentence into
silence. Her eyes glared defiance at him for a moment, then she
returned to the business of eating. Lemming looked embarrassed. Dr.
Bonetti shook his head. Captain Smith coughed, suggested mildly,
"Captain Algase must be an excellent astronavigator, Lieutenant. I
didn't notice a single jarring motion. In _my_ day, escape from a
vacuole was a tedious, ship-wracking process. Of course--" His eyes
wandered about the table querulously, "Of course there are so many
new inventions nowadays. Improvements in all lines. Spacecraft,
air-modifiers, armament--"

Mallory rose suddenly. He was half angry with the ex-space officer.
Smith wasn't being very subtle in his effort to help matters. No doubt
the old duck meant well, but--

He said, "If you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I must go to the
bridge. Ready, Bud?"

Bud Chandler gulped, "Ssswllwmcffy! Ulp!"

"What?"

"I said, 'As soon as I swallow my coffee!'" repeated the Second Mate
aggrievedly. "Can't you understand English? Let's go."

Lemming intercepted them as they passed his end of the table. He
asked, "Lieutenant, I've been wanting to ask for several days--might
I be permitted to visit the bridge? This is my first spaceflight, you
know. I've always wanted to see how the controls are operated."

"Speak to Captain Algase," suggested Dan. "That's not within my
power--Yes, Billy?"

The mess-boy had just raced in from the outer deck, trayless, almost
breathless. "Y're wanted on the bridge immejitely, Lootenant! Cap'n
orders!" His eyes were as big as saucers. "Sparks just got a message
through. A message from New Fresno!"

Dan had just time to notice, out of the corner of one eye, how this
bald pronouncement affected the passengers. He saw the concerted motion
that dragged them all to their feet as if they were puppets on a single
string; saw the sudden gleam in Wilmot's eye, the worried frown that
creased Bonetti's forehead, heard the swift, startled gasp from Lady
Alice and intercepted Captain Smith's darting glances from one to
another of the listeners. Lemming's voice quavered, "A--a message from
New Fresno!" and Susan Wilmot laughed, a short, strident, triumphant
burst of sound.

Then Dan Mallory saw no more. For with Chandler at his heels, he was
pounding through the corridors to the Jacob's ladder that fed the
control turret.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Algase was no beauty even when garbed in his officer's blues;
in pajamas and slippers he was something out of a nightmare. His bare
legs were like cylindrical hair mattresses, his pajama slacks bulged at
the equator as if he were concealing there a half watermelon. His eyes
were red and gummy, his temper like something that could be poured out
of a cruet. As Dan and Bud entered the control turret he was battering
the bewildered radioman's defenses into oblivion with a salvo of verbal
thermite.

"Message!" he was howling. "You call this thing a message! I'll have
you stewed in slow gravy for waking me up like this, Sparks! Of all the
damn, dumb--" He saw his two lieutenants. "Never mind, you two. Go back
and finish your breakfast. False alarm."

"We've finished, Skipper," said Dan. "What's all the commotion?"

"This _&![oe])$$[oe]09_!--" began Algase.

Sparks said miserably, "But it was Marlowe's hand on the keys, Cap'n! I
swear it was. I know the message don't make sense, but you can't fool
a bug-pounder. Every radioman has a distinctive sending style. Ask
anybody. Even one of them wise-cracking Donovan boys. They'll tell you.
And this was Marlowe's hand--"

"Let's see," said Mallory. He took the flimsy from his senior's
fingers, frowned as he ran an eye over the cryptic symbols. "Numerals!
All numerals. Sparks--?"

"It was like this. The static interference is still going on. The audio
wouldn't bring in voice at all. But as I was twisting the dials, I got
this power wave from Lunar III, Joe Marlowe's station. It had a--a sort
of cadence. I began putting down the things it sounded like, and--and
that's what come out."

Chandler, peering over his comrade's shoulder, said,

"Well, hell's bells, are you all nuts? It must be a code of some sort.
Sparks, we use several numerical codes, don't we?"

"Yes." Meekly. "But that ain't one of them, Lieutenant. That don't fit
no code in the reg book."

Mallory continued to stare at the message. It was long, and undeniably
confusing. It read:

83.7-152-232.12-167.64-31.02-16-184-167.64-9.02-1-126.92-144.27-
186.31-50.95-16-175-47.9-16-14.008-4.002-39.944-50.95-173.04-19-
16-10.25-69.87-14.008-16-184-232.12-186.31-39.944-127.61-14.008-
20.183-184-19-186.31-118.70-16-1-74.91-127.61-14.008-74.91-28.06-
32.06-181.4-14.008-140.13-138-92-20.183-184-39.944-222.-32.06-
138.92-162.46-26.97-126.92-140.13-40.08-10.82-26.97-32.06-31.02-
88.92-14.008-16-184-16-14.008-6.94-79.916-39.944-40.08-195.23-
39.944-114.76-150.43-126.92-232.12-114.76-127.61-14.008-32.06-
126.92-19-88.92-140.92-16-127.61-12-47.9-16-14.008-16-19-20.183-
184-78.96-52.01-16.721-225.97-88.92--

"--and there it began all over again," said Sparks. "The same sequence.
I agree, it's a code. But what good is a code when we ain't got
the key to it. It ain't a simple word substitution cryptogram or a
five-by-five. I studied them in the Academy, and tried them all before
I brought this to the Captain. In other words, it ain't no good to us
unless we've got the clue--and we ain't got the clue!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mallory said, "Billy said this was a message from New Fresno?"

"Well, he was wrong, as usual." Determinedly. "It come from Earth's
moon. I know Joe Marlowe's fingers when I hear 'em. Damn, we was
classmates for three years. Before I got crazy and gave up chemistry
for key-pushing--"

"Chemistry!" Mallory started. "Did you say chemistry? Did you and
Marlowe study chemistry together?"

"Yeah. Why?"

"Why! Because that's the answer. Marlowe is nobody's fool. He knew
you were the radioman aboard the _Libra_, prepared a special code,
the key to which would lie in your brain as the 'memory of auld lang
syne'--Bud, look at these figures again. You notice the number '16'
appearing over and over? Even in that thick skull of yours, '16'
suggests--?"

"Oxygen," declared Chandler promptly. "The atomic weight of oxygen."

"And eighty-three point seven? Forty-seven, nine?"

"Krypton. And--let's see--titanium?"

"Right! Grab a pencil, pal! I think we've got a solution here. Jot
these down--krypton, europium, thorium, erbium--Hold it!" He looked at
his companion disgustedly. "Just the symbols, you dope! Don't you see?
The symbols of the various elements employ every letter in the English
language except 'j' and 'q'--and those are the two least commonly used,
anyway. Start over. Krypton--"

"Kr," said Bud.

"Europium--"

"Eu."

"Thorium. Erbium--"

"'Kreuther'!" howled Bud. "That's it, Dan! Keep going!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The message slowly scrawled its way onto paper. A word appeared,
another, another. Then:

"Ten point twenty-five!" said Mallory. "Followed by 69.87! What the
hell are they?"

Bud said, "Maybe he made a mistake? Boron's 10.82. Lithium's 6.94--"

"No. That's not it," said Mallory. He frowned. Captain Algase had long
since wakened completely, was listening to his two juniors with glowing
pride. Now he cut the Gordian knot.

"Chromium," he suggested, "is fifty-two point one, Dan. The reverse of
the number that stumps you."

"Right! That's it, Skipper! And the meaning must be that the symbol is
to be written in reverse. 'Rc' instead of 'Cr.' There aren't enough
combinations to spell every word in the language unless you use some
subterfuges like that."

"Which makes the word," said Bud, "'forces.' Go on, pal...."

Mallory plunged into the heart of the coded letter. "39.944--"

"Argon," said Bud, "'A.'"

"114.76. Indium. 150.43--"

"Samarium. 'Sa.' Next?"

"Iodine."

"'I.'"

The message was finished. Bud handed it to Captain Algase. Mallory's
curiosity was at fever pitch. He had not been able to piece the letters
together as he went along; he had gained but a smattering here and
there. He waited. The skipper read slowly, breaking the message up into
coherent sentences.

"'Kreuther power behind revolution. Heavy forces now threatening New
Fresno--'"

"Kreuther, huh?" growled Bud. "I thought so."

"'Hasten assistance. Lane warns--'" The captain stopped, stared a
moment, glanced swiftly at Mallory. There was a tight note in his
voice. "'Lane warns Lady Alice, cabal spy, now in _Libra_--'"

"Lady Alice!" blurted Mallory. The warmth of the control turret
suddenly weighed down upon him; his brow felt hot, oppressed, as if
some gigantic hand had descended upon his temples.

"'Captain saith,'" continued Algase, "'intensify protection of new
secret ray.'" He crumpled the paper. "And that is all, gentlemen.
Mallory--"

"Yes, sir?"

"Our fears were justified. There _is_ a spy on the _Libra_. We must
take no chances. You will arrest Lady Alice Charwell, place her under
lock and key for the duration of the voyage."

Bud Chandler muttered, "Where does Marlowe get that Old English stuff?
'Saith!' Why didn't he say, 'Says'?"

"Because," Mallory answered mechanically, "there is no 'ys' combination
in the elemental vocabulary. He had to say it that way." The
recollection of his unpleasant duty flooded back on him; with it came
protest. "But it can't be true, Captain! There must be some mistake.
Surely Lady Alice wouldn't be--"

"On the contrary, Daniel," Algase's voice was unusually gentle, "she
would be. Once her family owned all of Io. It is more than likely that
she should want to see the globe freed of Board control; regain her
lost property. She could well be in league with Kreuther to overthrow
the present government. According to this, she _is_."

"Yes, sir," acknowledged Dan dully. He was thinking of Captain Smith's
warning. Of the book Lady Alice had been reading, the book on military
tactics. "Shall I make the--the arrest now, sir?"

"Yes, Lieutenant."

"Very good, sir!" He turned and left the room. His jaw was white and
rigid; a dull hurt was behind his eyes....

       *       *       *       *       *

A strained assemblage awaited his return to the mess hall. As he
entered the room all conversation ended abruptly; an almost audible
silence fell upon the group of passengers. Lemming half rose from his
seat, opened his mouth as though to say something, closed it again, his
lips a white slit against the green pallor of his cheeks. Lady Alice's
eyes were tense, expectant. Captain Smith moved forward to meet him.
The ex-space officer's heavy frame was poised and ready; there was a
note of subdued eagerness in his voice. He said stridently, "Well,
Lieutenant--?"

Dan Mallory's patience with the older man was quite exhausted. He said
curtly, but in a voice that did not reach the ears of the others,
"Captain, I must remind you that you have no authority whatsoever on
this ship! I appreciate your willingness to help, but--" Angrily. "For
God's sake, man, stop acting like the hero of a Twenty-second century
dime novel! Stop fingering your needle-gun, and--"

Smith looked embarrassed. His heavy shoulders sagged, and swift
contrition swept over Mallory as the one-time officer said, "I--I'm
sorry, Lieutenant."

Lemming had found words at last. He asked, shakily, "The--the message,
Lieutenant? Was it--?"

He had to arrest Lady Alice, thought Dan Mallory. But he didn't have
to humiliate her. To brand her eternally as a traitor in the eyes of
her associates. And he still held doggedly to the hope that somehow,
somewhere, had been made a dreadful mistake. He said, "The message was
a routine transmission, Mr. Lemming. Of no great importance. Now, will
you all be kind enough to disband, quietly?"

No one moved. Mallory, glancing at the faces about him, felt again
that conviction that an interwoven webbing of intrigue entangled these
passengers. He said, firmly, "That is not a request, but a command! You
will all retire to the observation deck at once!"

The little group stirred. Mallory sought the side of Lady Alice, said,
"I've been wanting to show you the ship, Lady Alice. Wouldn't you like
to see it now?"

Her look of pleased surprise burned him. She said, "Why, Lieutenant,
how nice! I would enjoy it."

They moved in a direction opposite that of the rest of the passengers.
Even so, they did not escape unnoticed. From the corner of his eye Dan
Mallory caught the glitter of Dr. Bonetti's spectacles, realized that
the dumpy man was watching them shrewdly. And for a moment his eye met
that of Captain Garland Smith; the old officer's head was nodding in
mused speculation. He, too, had guessed Mallory's concealed purpose.

Only the girl herself seemed unaware that this was not merely a
pleasantry. Her shoulder brushed that of Mallory as they pressed
through a narrow doorway; the soft, feminine warmth of her heaped
reproach on the young lieutenant, as did her words.

"Lieutenant, I see you can take advice as well as give it. I had no
idea, last night, when I suggested that you reveal the man beneath the
uniform more often, that you would actually--"

They were alone now. And Mallory turned to face her, his voice
purposely hard and impersonal.

"If you please, Lady Alice! It is my painful duty to inform you that
you are under arrest!"

"Under ar--!" Her gasp ended in a burst of light laughter. She brought
her hand to her forehead in mock salute. "Aye, Lieutenant! Brig, ho!
But if I'm not too inquisitive, what charges are preferred against
me? Murder? Of course, I _do_ kill time most horribly, but these long
trips--or could it be theft? I'm sure I've stolen nothing. Unless you
mean--" She paused in sudden confusion; her eyes lifted to his; there
was something written there, something breathtaking. Mallory had to
hold tight.

"The charge," he said tersely, "is--treason! That message was from
Lunar III, Lady Alice. It bore a warning from the commander of the
Intelligence Division there, advising us that you had been discovered
to be a member of Igor Kreuther's organization!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The light died from the girl's eyes, the smile on her lips turned to
ice. Her slim body stiffened, straightened. And for an instant Dan
Mallory saw, with swift prescience, that this girl was not all charm
and allure; that beneath her tempting softness there was a core,
steel-strong, of strength and daring.

"Treason! Treason, you--you blind fool!" she spat. "You dare accuse
_me_, Lady Alice Charwell, Grand Duchess of Io, Lady of the Rocket and
Globe, Maid of the Golden Crest, of--of treason! Sir! My family ruled
Io when that dominion was first discovered. For almost three hundred
years the Charwell crest has--"

"Please, Lady Alice!" pleaded Mallory. "I know how you feel about
it. To your mind, your actions were not treasonable. But Io is no
longer yours; it is under the guardianship of the Control Board. And
you mustn't talk this way. I will be called to testify against you;
anything you say will be convicting evidence--" He touched her shoulder
as though the warmth of his hand might melt its icy stiffness.

She shrugged herself loose disdainfully.

"I think we can dispense with the amenities, Lieutenant. The smile on
the lips ... the gracious invitation to 'see the ship' ... the friendly
hand of comfort...." There was scorn, anger, pain in her eyes. "It is
my right to demand the privilege of communicating with my accusers, is
it not? Those on Earth who--?"

"I'm sorry. No audio transmission is possible because of the
blanket-static. The message came through in a code."

"I see. I must wait, then, until we reach New Fresno. Never mind,
Lieutenant Mallory. You have said enough. I presume you are placing me
under guard? Where--in my own quarters? Very well. If you will be kind
enough to escort me there!" She laughed brittlely. "But, of course, you
will. You couldn't let a traitor out of your sight, could you?"

In throbbing, bitter silence they moved down the corridors to Lady
Alice's stateroom. There she spoke for the last time.

"The message that accused me, Lieutenant. Might I be permitted to hear
the damning evidence? What did it say?"

There was no harm, thought Mallory miserably, in telling her that. The
words were like acid, etched into his brain. He repeated them. She
listened intently, frowned--and then a new, curious look stole into her
eyes. She said, "But--"

"Yes?" said Mallory. "Yes?"

The look faded. She laughed scornfully.

"Hoping to hear more 'convicting evidence,' Lieutenant? I'm so sorry to
disappoint you. Now, will you lock the door after me, please?"

Dan Mallory made a last try. It would cost him his rocket if anyone
heard his words, but--

"Lady Alice," he pleaded, "I'm honestly sorry about this. I don't
believe you are guilty. If you'll trust me, tell me your side of the
story, I'll do everything in my power to--"

"You have done," said the girl tightly, "more than enough right now.
Guard me well, Lieutenant!" With a short, mocking laugh she slipped
through the door, Mallory waited a long minute, then turned the key in
the lock. Its grate was a taunting sneer. He returned to the bridge....

       *       *       *       *       *

He couldn't help overhearing the end of that conversation. The runway
that fed the control turret was narrow and metal-walled; it formed a
perfect soundbox. Moreover, the door was ajar. The voice was Captain
Algase reached his ears perfectly as he approached the room.

"--don't want to have to remind you again, Norton, that it is highly
unethical for a space officer to become involved with a woman
passenger. Especially with a married woman."

And the surly voice of Third Mate Rick Norton saying, "Very well, sir!"
Then footsteps approaching the door, a figure confronting his squarely,
Norton flushing, snarling, "Getting an earful, Mallory?"

Dan was in no mood for bickering. He said, "Don't mind me, Norton. I've
known for months you were a skirt-chaser. I don't consider it any of my
business."

Norton's cheeks flamed. He said insultingly, "And I suppose you stand
behind your stripes as you say that?"

"Forget the stripes." Mallory looked at his fists. "I stand behind
these."

"Good!" Norton swung. He was a well-built man, a strong man. His blow
packed dynamite--but it needed a target to set off the percussion cap.
It found no target but a moving one. Mallory ducked, rolled with the
punch, came up inside the Third Mate's guard to land a short, jabbing
left to the midsection, a blasting right to the point of Norton's jaw.
Norton gasped and collapsed soggily. Arms behind him reached out to
support his falling weight; other lips behind Mallory whistled softly
as Bud Chandler, coming up to serve his trick, witnessed the swift,
decisive exchange of blows. And Captain Algase, releasing Norton's
inert form, glared at Mallory.

"Well! Well, Lieutenant, I think you know we have rules against
brawling?"

"Aye, sir!"

"But--" Captain Algase stroked his jaw speculatively, "In this
case--Chandler, get him below! It served him right. Maybe he'll spend
this rest period sleeping, instead of stirring up trouble amongst the
passengers. Dan, my boy--"

He led the way back into the turret, completed the log record for the
previous trick, handed it to Mallory, who had slipped into the control
bucket.

"Twenty-four more Earth hours and we'll be there," he said. "And,
believe me, I'll be glad when this trip ends. Trouble. Nothing but
trouble from beginning to end. Long tricks and short tempers. Norton
getting mixed up with that Wilmot dame--a damn' hussy if I ever saw
one, and her husband a neurotic wreck. Smith bothering the blistering
Hades out of me, wanting to 'help' catch spies and a thousand other--"
He glanced at Mallory, who had stiffened at the word. His glance was
sympathetic. "I'm sorry I had to ask you to arrest her, Daniel. But
it's experiences like that that make strong men out of space officers.

"You have to be hard in this business. Crime hides beneath strange
disguises. The sweetest smiles, the friendliest hand-shakes, the most
honeyed words, may conceal--"

"If you please, sir!" said Dan Mallory, white-lipped.

"I know, lad. I've seen the way you looked at her. But remember--forty
thousand innocent lives! Had she learned the secret of that new weapon,
our voyage might have been disastrous. From this distance she could
have made a flight to Io in one of the auxiliary safety rockets,
given the plans to Kreuther's forces. The very weapon we look to for
salvation would have been used against us. Io might have become a nest
of rebellion, instead of a peaceful member of the solar family. Now
that we've snared our spy, the messenger--whoever he is--will be safe."

On the visiplate it was a glowing red spark, but in the _perilens_
before him it was a gigantic orb dominating the heavens through which
the _Libra_ hurtled. Jupiter; monster of Sol's scattered brood, untamed
sphere of writhing gases and vague mystery, itself a pseudo-parent
emanating enough heat to make its far-flung satellites livable worlds.
Soon they would fling themselves, they aboard the _Libra_, halfway
around that gigantic orb, settle to the small body now wanly visible as
a silver crescent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dan Mallory punched a control-key savagely, felt the _Libra_ shake
itself into a slightly changed curve, turned to his superior.

"I'm not so sure of that, sir. Oh, I'm not trying to defend Lady Alice.
Earth's Intelligence officers don't make mistakes--not mistakes of
that magnitude, anyway. But there are other passengers I don't trust.
Lemming. Wilmot. Dr. Bonetti. Why are they aboard the _Libra_? Why were
they so excited when they heard we'd received a message from Lunar III?
Suppose one of them is also a spy?"

"Or suppose," said the skipper, "one of them bears the secret of the
new ray weapon. Wouldn't that one naturally be excited?"

"But the others?" Mallory inquired.

"I don't know. You may have something there, Daniel. I'm still taking
no chances. I've put Aiken on guard at Lady Alice's door. If anyone
tries to liberate her--What _is_ it, Sparks?"

He snapped the query at the intercommunications box which was
spluttering and growling. The radioman's tone was weary. "It's Mr.
Wilmot again, sir. He insists on talking to you."

"Tell Mr. Wilmot I will see him at midday mess."

Sparks was stubborn about it.

"But he insists his message is important, sir. He demands to see you at
once. Says--"

"_Demands!_" The skipper's jowls reddened. "Please tell Mr. Wilmot
passengers do not _demand_ favors of spaceship officers. I will see him
at mess. That is all!" And he cut the communications board; turned to
Mallory angrily. "That's why I didn't put you on report for slugging
Norton. Wilmot's mad as a hornet and I don't blame him. Norton catting
around after his wife--"

Chandler appeared, grinning. He said to Mallory, "What a sock, pal,
what a sock! If that guy counts sheep in his sleep, he's going to wake
up allergic to mutton. Wish I had done it. He's a grouchy son-of-a--
What's biting you?"

Mallory said, "That's just it, damn it! I don't quite know. It just
came upon me like a flash that someone said something funny ...
something that didn't ring true ... but I can't remember what it was.
If I could--"

"See, Skipper? It's got him, too. We're all going to be candidates for
the straitjacket squad when we finish this trip."

Algase smiled sourly. "Well, don't lift gravs for the next twenty-four
hours, that's all I ask. See you later, boys." He turned to leave; was
interrupted by the buzz of the intercommunications box. "What, again!
Yes, Sparks--what is it this time? If it's Wilmot again, tell him to go
beat his brains out with a rusty bar! I'll see him at--"

Sparks' voice was harsh with excitement.

"It is Wilmot, sir! But I can't tell him anything. He's dead, sir!
Murdered!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chandler said, "Murdered? Mi-god!" Captain Algase said a more effective
and less printable thing which ended in, "Come on!" And he and Chandler
pounded down the runway, their footsteps ringing on the Jacob's-ladder,
disappearing in the distance.

Dan Mallory, his thoughts chaotic, sat chained to his bucket seat by
the obligation of guiding the spaceship through the treacherous void.
His fingers played over the control keys automatically; slowly the
chaos left his brain and cold, clear, reasoning thought took its place.

Wilmot dead. Why? The first thought that suggested itself was Norton.
Motive--jealousy. The desire to get Susan Wilmot's husband out of the
way so--

But that was illogical. Norton was a skirt-chaser and a quixotic fool,
but he wasn't a criminal. Murder was not in his line. Why else, then?

Because Wilmot had been the bearer of the formula? Had he been slain
by a spy? And if so, by whom? Lady Alice was in her cabin, or at
least--with a swift constriction of the throat--Dan hoped she was. He
pressed the intercommunications button hurriedly; Sparks' face appeared
before him on the visiplate. "Get me the M-13 plate, Sparks! The one in
the stateroom passageway!"

The scene shifted. Aiken, a space gob, looked up as the audio before
him glowed into life, touched his forelock respectfully. "Lieutenant
Mallory?"

"The prisoner is in her stateroom?"

"Aye, sir."

"She hasn't been out?"

"Not for a moment, sir." The sailor added, "Might I ask the lootenant
what the h--I mean, what's going on?"

"Plenty!" snapped Dan. "That's all, sailor. Carry on!"

The glow faded. Mallory shook his head. No dice on that hunch. Then
what else--?

The thought came so suddenly, so breathtakingly, that it literally
lifted him out of his chair. There was but one possible answer! The
reverse of his former theory. Wilmot was neither the bearer of the
precious secret nor a spy. He was the "innocent bystander"; the
traditional victim who, from time immemorial, has always been the one
to get bopped. Somehow the nervous, jittery little man had learned
_who_ the spy was. He had attempted to communicate his knowledge to
Captain Algase; the petulance of his own nature had rendered this
impossible. And the spy, knowing that Wilmot had learned his secret,
had--

Again he pressed the button. This time Sparks said, "Lieutenant
Mallory? Have you seen Mr. Lemming? The captain wants to question him,
but he can't be found anywhere--"

"Never mind that!" rapped Mallory. "Sparks, I want to know this. How
was Wilmot killed?"

"Rayed, sir. Needled."

"I thought as much. And who was the first to find him?"

"Dr. Bonetti, sir. He's being held under suspicion. He confesses to
having supplied Wilmot with drugs, sir. _Teklin-root_, sir. (That would
be, thought Mallory swiftly, the package surreptitiously exchanged in
the observation room.) But he claims he didn't kill Wilmot--"

"Quick, man! Was Captain Smith anywhere around the radio turret when
this happened?"

"Why--why, he _had_ been, sir. But he left before Mr. Wilmot did--"

Captain Algase's face appeared in the visiplate beside that of Sparks.
"Daniel, my boy, keep your eye peeled for Lemming. He's disappeared.
Susan Wilmot has told us he isn't a jewel merchant at all; he's a jewel
thief! Fleeing Earth to gain settler's amnesty on Io. Wilmot knew his
secret, tried to blackmail him. Lemming threatened--"

"You're after the wrong man!" screamed Dan Mallory. "Captain, I see it
all, now! The whole story. These other things have confused us. Sparks,
swiftly--get me that M-13 plate again!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The scene spun, changed dizzily. Once again Mallory was gazing down
the corridor where Aiken had stood guard. But Aiken no longer stood
before Lady Alice Charwell's door. He lay there, limp, still forever. A
smoking hole charred his broad chest, crimson stirred sluggishly from
the needle-ray's telltale trail. The door of the stateroom was open.

A hoarse bellow told Dan that the captain was seeing the same scene.

"_She_ did it! She killed him and escaped!"

"No!" roared Mallory. "_Smith_ did it! The man we should have suspected
all the time; the man who _admitted_ his guilt, but I was too blind to
see it. Kreuther's spy. The renegade space officer--Captain, did you
feel that?"

His space-trained senses had felt the swift, tiny moment of jarring
repercussion that meant only one thing--that from one of the escape
ports a life-skiff, an auxiliary safety rocket, had slipped from its
base on the _Libra_, taken off into space!

"He's escaping! He's kidnaped her and taken off in a life-skiff. Bud!
Take over! I'm lifting gravs!"

And for the first time in his career as an officer of the SSP,
Lieutenant Daniel Mallory violated, deliberately, a rule of the Space
Patrol handbook. He rammed the _Libra's_ controls into the robot hands
of the Iron Mike, and abandoned his post in mid-flight!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not that he considered himself more capable than his captain or
the second mate. His move was dominated by only one thing, the urgent
need for haste. Safety rockets are, as everyone knows, blindingly fast.
Much faster than the heavier, sturdier, cruising vessels that bear them
like so many unfledged wallabies in a pouch. Give Smith a flying start
and he would never be apprehended. And _he_, Dan Mallory, was much
nearer a life-skiff port than the other officers up in the loft of the
radio turret.

Slipping, skidding, stumbling in his haste, he raced to the nearest
port, flung open the control-bar, threw himself into the small,
tear-shaped vehicle lying there. There were regulations demanding that
air, food, water supplies be ascertained before flight in one of these
was attempted. But there was no time for such nonsense now. Each second
seemed an hour as Mallory warmed the hypatomic motors of the skiff,
rammed the button that opened the _Libra's_ outer shell, struck another
that catapulted the safety-rocket away from its parent craft.

Then the dark of the womblike casing was gone, and he was blasting,
under his own power, through space illumined with the candle-gleams of
a trillion galactic motes. He set his range-finder and attractor--but
even as their needles found their objective, his searching eyes located
it. A tiny, silvery gleam against the tawny night ahead--a gleam from
the stern of which flared burst upon flaming burst of superheated light.

The rockets of Smith's skiff, hell-bent for Io!

Minutes _had_ been precious! Vitally so. Already the little craft was
countless thousands of miles before him. It was a wide margin that
separated him; and in that margin lay the difference between freedom
and peonage for forty thousand Earth-men, millions of Ionians, the
difference between life and death for the girl Smith had kidnaped, the
difference between victory and defeat for the Solar Patrolmen.

There was only one way to catch Smith. Recognizing the fact, Dan
Mallory bit his lip, set his jaw stubbornly. Acceleration! Acceleration
great enough to fling him across the yawning void, enable him to snare
his quarry in tensiles....

And he was not strapped! No safety corset to hold tight the straining
cords of his viscera, no yards of gauze padding to keep his wracked
body from literally flinging itself to shreds. No--

He glanced about him hurriedly. There were piles of cushions, soft,
plump, airy, scattered about the metallic cockpit. He jammed a dozen
of these behind him, under him, about him. There was an oxy-helmet in
its container beside him; he thrust this over his head. Its rubberoid
halter settled about his chest, his shoulders. At least his straining
eyes would not bulge from their sockets; by adjustment--if he could
raise a hand--he could compensate accelerative force with pressure.

He drew a deep breath. Then, recklessly, wrenched the dial of the motor
to full acceleration!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was as though ten thousand fiery demons tore at his body with claws
of flame. A weight, massive, imponderable, kicked the breath out of
his lungs, forced it from his gaping mouth and flared nostrils into
the helmet he wore. He gulped and strangled, fighting to draw into
a shrunken chest a breach of fleeing life. One hand moved--or tried
to--to his throat in an instinctive gesture of distress. The hand
moved a half inch from his knee, flung itself back into his stomach
like a leaden weight.

The quick burst of nausea saved his life, because tortured ductless
glands released a stream of adrenalin into his churning blood-stream,
the miraculously adaptable body of Man rose once again above its normal
limitations. Air crept into his lungs, his heart's tumultuous pounding
no longer throbbed a threnody in his eardrums.

Still he could move with only the greatest of effort--but he could
move! And his eyes, no longer blinded by the red mist that had drowned
their sockets, saw the rocket-flares before him seem to literally stop
in mid-flight, race back toward him!

A great exultation seized him. He was hardly aware that bright blood
had burst from his nostrils, and that as he opened his lips to shout
hoarsely the corners of his mouth drooled red. The craft he pursued
whirled fiercely toward him; like flame-riding charioteers they
jockeyed across the cosmic wastes. Smith knew he was there. Must know.
But--Mallory's grin was the grimace of a gargoyle--he didn't have the
guts to duplicate the young lieutenant's mad burst of speed.

He was depending on other weapons. Even as Mallory experienced the
thought, a stabbing beam spat backward from the other rocket, a
coruscating ray of silver that bore sudden death.

But Mallory had anticipated the move; his slow hand had been straining
for seconds to forestall it. He pressed a lever--the ship slid into
a dive. Another and the terrible pressure lifted from his limbs, his
body felt suddenly light and buoyant, strength surged back to him with
singing sweetness.

Again that stabbing ray searched for him. But Dan Mallory was no
novice at the art of space warfare. He spun his craft into a cycloid
Laegland arc, the lethal ray spent itself on indestructible space, and
when Mallory came out of his maneuver he was within scant miles of his
objective.

Grinning savagely, his hand sought the button that would smash Smith's
ship into oblivion--then stayed! Lady Alice! He could not destroy her
with Smith. Because now he knew, certainly and surely, two things. One
of which was that she must be the bearer of the secret ray formula to
Io. In no other way could you account for the fact that Smith had dared
everything to kidnap her. She carried the secret, not in papers, but in
her mind.

Were she to die--and might the gods of space forbid that his hand
should destroy her loveliness!--Kreuther would still be the victor.
For with her would perish the final hope of the besieged New Fresno
garrison.

The other thing he realized was--

But there was no time for that now. His fingers spurned the ray button;
found another. A jolt shivered the space-skiff from fore-quartz to
rocket as his tensile beam reached across the closing miles, fastened
its grip on Smith's craft.

Mallory's grin tightened. He cut motors. His tensile beam would
contract like a rubber band, drawing the two ships together. Smith,
feeling that beam upon him, unable to sheer it off, would not be able
to turn a lethal radiation upon him now. For the tensile beam was a
perfect conduction ray. To destroy one ship meant to destroy both.

There was a groan behind him. Shocked, he turned. From the storage bin,
bleeding from nose, ears, mouth, body twisted as though wrung through
some gigantic mangler, crawled the missing jewel thief--Albert Lemming!

       *       *       *       *       *

Mallory choked, sickened. "Lord, man! How did you get aboard here?
Why--"

Liquid breath gurgled in Lemming's throat. Glaze filmed his eyeballs.
"Tried to--" he panted, "--stow away. Wilmot dead--knew suspect
me--hid--"

His head fell forward to the floor. Dan fingered his pulse, found there
not the feeblest stir of life. Lemming, fleeing the dreaded breath of
suspicion, had lost the more important breath of life. The miracle was
that he had survived, even so long, the tremendous acceleration that
had taxed all Mallory's space-trained, protected faculties.

And the two space-skiffs closed inexorably the gap between them.
Mallory's quick brain leaped to the final problem. But before he could
solve it, the small skiff audio burst into speech.

"Well done, whoever you are!" said the voice from the other skiff. "But
you realize it won't do you any good?"

Mallory rasped, "I'm coming alongside in a minute, Smith. Stand by to
surrender peaceably, or--"

"Or?" mocked the ex-space officer. "So it's you, Lieutenant? I might
have guessed it. Your valor is exceeded only by your lack of foresight.
I repeat, your hectic pursuit has done you no good."

"Never mind the talk. Stand by. This is the end," said Mallory. "This
is checkmate, Smith."

"Not checkmate, my gallant young friend," corrected Smith.
"_Stalemate._ True, you hold me captive in your beam. But to what end?
You can't hope to take me alive. Whenever I choose, I can blast you and
myself into atoms. And with us goes--" he paused significantly--"Lady
Alice! Ah, you are silent, Lieutenant? I thought you would be. Of
course, I'm an old man. These youthful romancings no longer interest
me. But--bless us, she's much too beautiful to die, isn't she,
Lieutenant?"

Lady Alice's voice interrupted.

"Take him, Dan! Don't think about me. I'm not afraid to--"

"You hear, Lieutenant? The girl's gallantry is a fit match for your
own. But by this time, surely, you have realized that if she dies, the
secret of the new ray weapon dies with her. I think my leader's forces
will have taken New Fresno before a second messenger reaches Io."

It was the truth. Knowing that, Dan Mallory groaned. This was a
deadlock; one that neither force could break. He said slowly, "Well,
Captain? What is your price for Lady Alice's safety?"

"My own," replied the renegade spaceman promptly, "and the secret
she bears. I'm not an unreasonable man, Lieutenant. Even though--"
bitterness edged his words--"even though the Solar Space Patrol
did take the best years of my life, squeeze the heart out of me,
throw my aging body into the discard like a dried pulp. No, I'm not
unreasonable--"

So that was it. The self-pity of an aging man, perhaps a man gone off
his gravs from the letdown after active years. That was why Smith
had renounced his SSP pledge, gone over to the other side. Captain
Algase's words rang in Dan's memory. "Where there are new causes, there
are traitors to the old--" Even a spaceman was not exempt from human
weakness.

"If Lady Alice will surrender her secret to me," the renegade captain
was continuing, "with convincing proof that the formula she gives me is
no lie, I will permit you both to live. I will allow you to keep one of
these ships, return to safety--"

Mallory thought feverishly. It was against his every scruple to parley
thus with the other man. But he could gain nothing by destroying
himself and Lady Alice. Alive, there was always a chance they might win
through to the New Fresno fort, carry their message, howsoever belated.
If they died, Kreuther and his hirelings would surely win.

He said, "Very well, Smith. I accept. Give him the formula, Lady Alice."

Her answer was tense, vivid.

"No! No, Dan, don't trust him! He won't keep his promise. I know he
won't!"

"We must take that chance." Grimly. "Tell him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The audio went dead. Mallory waited impatiently. Somewhere, lost in the
immensity that engulfed them, the _Libra_ surged through space on a
mission now in the hands of the deadlocked three. So near that it was
more sunlike than Sol, Jupiter swung in its titanic orbit about Man's
luminary. The endless night was spangled with an infinitude of stars.
The stars toward which Man, yearning, groped--while Man's feet still
stumbled through the muck and mire of deceit....

And the audio woke to life again. Smith's voice was triumphant. "Very
well, Lieutenant. I am satisfied. I have finished the demolition of
power and arms units in this ship. Its radio, however, still operates.
I think it will sustain life for you until your friends arrive. I am
ready to board your ship."

Lady Alice's cry broke in, "Be careful, Dan! He'll kill you! He--"
There was the sound of flesh upon flesh, a silence. Then, "Well,
Lieutenant?"

Dan said, "Come ahead."

"You will take your place," said Smith, "in the pilot's seat where I
can see you from the moment I enter the lock. Put your hands above
your head. Do not move or turn as I enter. If you do--"

"Come ahead," repeated Dan. The audio disconnected.

Dan sprang into motion. He believed Lady Alice's warning. And he
was prepared to meet subtlety with subtlety; deceit with deceit.
Not yet had Smith won. He bent and lifted the broken body of Albert
Lemming. Hurriedly he jammed the oxy-helmet down over the dead man's
bloody features. He grunted, "Sorry, pal!" as he hoisted Lemming into
the pilot's chair, forced stiffening arms back and up in token of
surrender. The high back of the chair, the padded cushions made the
form hold its position.

He finished just in time. There was a scraping at the airlock. The two
ships had drifted side to side now, and entry was a simple matter.
Mallory ducked back into the compartment from which Lemming had
emerged. His needle gun was in his hand, poised, ready....

Smith entered quietly. He glanced once at the figure in the pilot's
chair, said, "Don't move, Lieutenant--" and his arm raised. The girl's
warning had been all too true. There was rankest treachery in the
leveling of that gun, in the fiery needle dart that hurled across the
chamber, burying itself in Lemming's defenseless head. The stench of
charred flesh filled the room. The dead body wobbled, lurched to the
floor. And--

"Now, _you_ stand still, Smith!" gritted Mallory.

Smith whirled, his jaw dropping open. In his eyes dawned horror,
disappointment, rage. He cried out once, raised his gun.

That was how he died. With his traitorous fingers lifted for the last
time against a man who wore the uniform he had once worn ... and had
disgraced....

       *       *       *       *       *

Afterward, as they stood in the control turret of the _Libra_, watching
a sober-faced Rick Norton plot the landing that would bring new life
to the Ionian colonists, swift retribution to the fomenters of the
uprising, Bud Chandler whaled his comrade's back enthusiastically.

"Guy," he said, "in words of one syllable, you're terrific!"

"That's not one syllable," grinned Mallory.

"All right, then, you're a lallapalooza! But how the blue asteroids did
you get onto the fact Smith was the guy?"

Dan said, "It came to me almost too late. It had been worrying me
subconsciously ever since I had to--" here he flushed--"had to arrest
Lady Alice. I knew that someone had, in conversation with me, said
something that didn't ring true. And when Wilmot was killed for having
discovered the truth about Smith, I suddenly remembered what it was.

"The night before we got the message from Lunar III, assuring us that
Kreuther was behind the revolution, Smith had mentioned to me, quite
casually, that he suspected there were on the _Libra_ 'espionage agents
of the Kreuther forces.' What he was attempting to do, of course, was
ally himself with us in order to divert suspicion. But he tipped his
hand by that little slip of the tongue."

Lady Alice smiled. She said, "Well, you're not awfully smart. Any of
you. I knew he was the spy as soon as I heard the message from Earth."

Captain Algase interrupted, "Yeah, that message! I'm going to raise an
assortment of hell about that. Causing us to arrest the one person on
board we could really trust."

"And all," smiled the girl, "because of one, small, chemical symbol
that you misread. Oh, yes, I understand now. I've seen the original.
Bud--you went to the Academy, didn't you?"

"Why--why, yes."

"Your professor there must have been quite an old man. I mean your
chemistry prof."

"He was. Ancient. But what has that got to do with it?"

"Everything. He taught you the old, the original chemical symbol for
the element samarium. 'Sa.' The more common symbol, the generally
accepted one, is 'Sm.' Now you see what a great difference that one
little error makes in the meaning of the message. You read it:

"'Lane warns Lady Alice, cabal spy, now on _Libra_. Captain saith
intensify protection of new secret ray.'"

"And it should have been read," broke in Dan Mallory, understanding at
last, "'Lane warns Lady Alice cabal spy now on _Libra_--Captain Smith!
Intensify protection--' and so on. It was a warning _to_ you, not about
you!"

"Exactly. Naturally, I was--well, indignant when I was placed under
arrest. Afterward, I began to think it a good idea. Confined to my
quarters, guarded, I would be completely safe. But unfortunately
Captain Smith guessed, when I was arrested, that _I_ was the bearer of
the formula. So he killed my guard, seized the skiff, and kidnaped me.

"Saith!" grunted Bud Chandler disgustedly. "I told you that word was
phony. Joe Marlowe never used good English in his life when a cuss-word
would do just as well. Hey! Where are you two going?"

It is doubtful whether Dan Mallory heard the question. There was one
other little matter that needed clearing up--but soon! That was the way
Lady Alice Charwell, in the moment of their mutual peril, had hurdled
the amenities of speech, addressed him not as "Lieutenant," or even as
plain "Mallory," but as--

"Dan," he said. "You called me 'Dan.' It's not right, Lady Alice. You
shouldn't do things like that unless you mean them. And I--"

"Suppose," she asked, "I like that part of your name best. It is a nice
name, you know."

Dan Mallory's big hands pawed futilely at the blue of his uniform.
"So," he croaked, "is Mallory. And--and I guess I'm completely crazy. I
couldn't ask you to share a name like that. I'm just a space cop. And
you're a Lady. A titled Lady."

She said softly, "A Lady, Dan? There is no Duchy of Io any more. That's
a thing of the past, and my title is only a courtesy. And, oh--I'm so
tired of courtesies. I'm a space cop, too, now. There's nothing in the
rules to keep two cops from teaming up, is there? Oh, you big, damn,
dumb idiot--!"

Her face, smiling up at his, was inclined at just the right angle.
They told him afterward that Rick Norton made a swell landing. He
didn't believe it. For it seemed to Dan Mallory that the whole cosmos
was swirling and dancing and twisting upside down in a delirium of
delight....





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Revolt on Io, by Nelson S. Bond

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REVOLT ON IO ***

***** This file should be named 61858.txt or 61858.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/8/5/61858/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
