The Project Gutenberg EBook of Phantom of the Seven Stars, by Ray Cummings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Phantom of the Seven Stars

Author: Ray Cummings

Release Date: April 17, 2020 [EBook #61855]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PHANTOM OF THE SEVEN STARS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                      Phantom of the Seven Stars

                            By RAY CUMMINGS

            Lovely Brenda Carson, scholarly Jerome, pompous
           Livingston ... everyone aboard the _Seven Stars_
           scoffed at the idea of a Phantom Pirate. But I.P.
      agent Jim Fanning didn't laugh. He knew the luxury-liner's
        innocent looking cargo was already marked for plunder.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1940.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Part of my assignment on this space-flight of the _Seven Stars_ was to
watch the girl. That much, at least, wasn't hard. She was certainly
easy to look at--a little beauty, slim with a pert, oval little face
framed by unruly pale-gold hair. With mingled starlight and earthlight
gleaming in that hair, it was like spun platinum. Her name was Brenda
Carson. Certainly, she was an inspiring figure to any young man, in her
white blouse and corded black and white trousers and her long black
traveling cape with its hood dangling at the back of her neck and the
cape folds flowing from her slim shoulders almost to the ground.

We were several days out from New York, with Mars, our destination,
hanging like a great dull-red ball among the blazing stars in the black
firmament ahead of us, when I first noticed that there was anything
queer about Brenda. We were sitting under the glassite pressure-dome on
the forepeak of the _Seven Stars_, bathed in the pallid starlight. By
ship-routine it was mid-evening.

I gestured toward one of the side bull's-eyes of the bow-peak.
"Gloomy-looking world, that Asteroid-9," I said.

The little asteroid, one of the many out here in the belt between the
orbits of Earth and Mars, was a small leaden crescent of sunlight
with the unlighted portion faintly putty-colored. It was, I knew, a
world some five-hundred miles in diameter, amazingly dense so that
its gravity was not a great deal less than Earth. A bleak, barren
little globe. It had an atmosphere breathable for humans; there was
water--occasional rainfall; but chemicals in the cloud-vapors poisoned
the water for human consumption. The rocks were heavily laden with
metals. But they were all base metals, of no particular value. So far
as I knew, nobody had ever bothered to settle on Asteroid-9. It was
completely uninhabited.

"Asteroid-9?" Brenda murmured. "Is that what it's called?"

Something in my chance remark had frightened her. Her blue eyes as she
flung me a quick, startled glance were suddenly clouded with what might
have been terror.

Her brother Philip was with us. He quickly said, "Asteroid-9? Somebody
said we pass pretty close to it this voyage." He laughed. "Rotten sort
of place, by what I've heard. You can have it and welcome."

I must explain that I was--and still am--an IP Man. My name, Jim
Fanning. I was assigned as Lieutenant to Patrolship two. I had
been on vacation, in New York. My ship, one of the biggest in the
Interplanetary Patrol, was now on roving duty somewhere in the vicinity
of Mars. Then suddenly an emergency with the _Seven Stars_ had arisen.
Chief Rankin had planted me on her. Only the captain knew my identity.
To the dozen or so passengers, I was merely a young civilian traveler.

"I've never been to Asteroid-9," I was saying. And I, too, laughed
casually, "I agree with you, Carson. Nice place to die in, but I guess
that's all."

There was no question but what Brenda was trying to hide her sudden
emotion. Terror? Was that it? We said no more about the asteroid;
chatted of other things, and we were presently joined by another of the
passengers.

"Ah, beautiful night," he greeted us. "I never get tired of the glories
of the starways. Good evening, Miss Carson." He nodded smilingly to
Philip Carson and me, and drew up a chair with us. His name was Arthur
Jerome, well-known to me, though I had never before met him. He was
a big, florid, distinguished-looking man of forty-odd; a habitual
Interplanetary traveler, who between flights lectured over the earth
television networks on things astronomical.

We talked for a while, and then suddenly Arthur Jerome said, "Nobody
mentions the Phantom bandit. You know, if anything could spoil my
interest in Interplanetary travel, it's to have a weird thing like that
come up."

"Phantom bandit?" Brenda Carson murmured. "Is there--is there really
such a thing?"

Arthur Jerome shrugged. "Naturally it's had no publicity. But things
get out. Those last three accidents to space-liners--you can't hide
that sort of thing. And you wouldn't call it supernatural. Or would
you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Phantom of the starways! That was the crux of my being here on the
_Seven Stars_. Weird, mysterious thing--no wonder the Earth, Mars and
Venus governments had not dared let it get any publicity which they
could possibly avoid. For three months now, this Earth-year of 2170,
mysterious accidents had been happening to commercial space-ships.
Non-arrival at destination, and then later found by the Interplanetary
Patrol, derelicts in space. Gruesome damn' thing. A ship unharmed, save
that its air was gone. As though some mysterious accident had broken
one of the pressure valves, or deranged the machinery of an exit-porte,
so that the air had all hissed out. Ship of the dead. Everyone aboard
lying asphyxiated.

It was eerie.

A "ghost-vessel" attacking the liners? A modern version of the ancient
_Flying Dutchman_ legend? Radio newscasters talked of things like
that. A vengeful ghost-ship roaming the starways, with dead pirates
aboard, bent on attacking the living navigators whom they hated just
because they were alive. It made nice gruesome broadcasting to give
the television audience the shivers. Supernatural legends easily get
support. Particularly from hysterical, imaginative women, or cranks who
crave publicity. Reports had come from amateur astronomers who owned
fairly decent telescopes that they had seen the wraith of a pallid
ghost-ship hovering up in Earth's stratosphere; passengers on liners
had hysterically thought they saw the same thing.

A supernatural menace. But no reputable observer had ever seen
anything. Our Interplanetary Patrol was completely baffled. And what
the public didn't know was that those wrecked vessels--one of them,
at least--had shown evidence that it had been hit by an electronic
space-gun with a range of several hundred miles, which had broken the
pressure-dome and let the air out. And in every case the wrecked ship
was looted; the passengers' money and jewelry gone; the Purser's safe
rifled.

"Anyway, it's a good thing for us," Arthur Jerome was saying, "the
little _Seven Stars_ ought not to be much of a prize for the phantom
raider." He grinned, with his hand ruffling his sandy hair. "Let's hope
we escape."

The _Seven Stars_ not much of a prize? It was certainly reasonable
enough to think that. We had a few Martians in the second-class
section, and a few Earthmen passengers; and just an average commercial
cargo. That's what anyone would think; and only the captain and I knew
differently. Our cargo was anything but average. The boxes, as they
had come aboard and been stored in the hold, were labeled as American
preserved food-stuffs; technical commercial instruments, German-made
prisms, lenses and the like. But in reality those boxes were crammed
only with modern electronic weapons of war. It was a shipment purchased
by the Martian government which was faced by the insurrection of its
wealthy colony on Deimos. They were unusual weapons of exclusive
Earth-manufacture. Small, for short-range, hand-use only; weapons to
disable, but not injure. The recently publicized so-called "paralysis
gun" was one of them. The Martian government, humane at least in battle
with its own people, desperately needed this type of weapon in its
forthcoming invasion of Deimos to subdue the rebels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not much of a prize, our little commercial liner _Seven Stars_
this voyage? Just the opposite! Those rich colonists of Deimos
most certainly would pay well to keep this shipment away for Mars!
Would news of it have leaked out? Would the Phantom of the Starways
attack the _Seven Stars_ for just that purpose? Chief Rankin, of
the Interplanetary Patrol, certainly thought it a possibility. He
had put me aboard here; and as only the Captain and I knew, my
ship--Patrolship-2--had been ordered to join us out here somewhere and
convoy us to Mars. Convoy us against an attack by an enemy that you
couldn't see!

"The Phantom raider!" Young Philip Carson was echoing Arthur Jerome's
lugubrious words. "You suppose there is really any such thing?" I saw
him exchange a glance with his sister. He laughed, but it wasn't much
of a success.

"I doubt it," I agreed. "So far as I ever heard, those accidents
were--well, just accidents. An air-valve can go wrong, you know,
and dump the air out of a ship. Air goes quickly, and with a pretty
powerful rush, if it once gets started.... Gruesome kind of talk, Miss
Carson," I added lightly.

She tried to smile. My heart went out to her in that moment. Her
beauty, I suppose; but somehow she seemed horribly pathetic. That
mention of Asteroid-9 mysteriously frightened her; and now this mention
of the phantom spaceship terrified her even more.

"You're right," Arthur Jerome agreed. "The supernatural is fascinating.
Or a thing that you can't see but still can kill you--that's just as
gruesome."

"And fascinating?" Philip Carson put in sourly. "Well, it may be to
you, but it's frightening my sister. Let's talk of something else."

Then another passenger joined us. That girl was a magnet to men.

"Well, well, Miss Carson," he boomed as he came up. "You are looking
very beautiful in the starlight." He sat down with us. His name was
Walter J. Livingston--the Very Honorable Walter J. Livingston to give
him his official title. He had just been appointed by the President
of the World-Federation as Earth Ambassador to the Martian Government;
was on his way there now to present his credentials. He was a big,
heavy-set fellow, with a mass of iron-gray hair, a ribbon across his
ruffled shirt-bosom; and the out-jutting jaw and booming voice of a
born politician. Did he by any chance know the contents of the _Seven
Stars'_ cargo, this voyage? So far as I had been informed, he did
not. I studied him now, and instinctively I didn't like him--possibly
because of the extravagant compliments he was paying Brenda Carson.

The talk went on, and presently as I glanced up to the little control
tower under the pressure-dome above us, I saw the bulky figure of
Captain Wilkes standing there. He caught my gaze and furtively
gestured. I excused myself in a moment; sauntered down the narrow side
deck, turned a distant corner of the little superstructure. Then I went
up to its roof, and forward again. In a moment I was in the control
tower.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Wilkes was there, seated alone with his electro-telescope
beside him. He slid the oval doors closed upon us.

"Your ship's in sight," he greeted me. "Thought you'd be interested."

Patrolship-2, coming to convoy us. I took a look through the eye-piece
of the telescope. Familiar vessel on which I had spent so many months.
Its long cylindrical alumite hull, with the pressure-dome over its
single upper deck, was painted by sunlight on one side and starlight on
the other as it headed diagonally toward us. By the range-finder on the
telescope I measured its visual length.

"Ten thousand miles off us," I said to the captain.

"Yes. Just about. Now listen, Fanning--there'll be no contact. It will
circle us, close at hand. If the passengers ask you why we need any
convoy--we don't want any panic here you know."

What he had in mind about explaining this convoy was never disclosed.
He was staring through a duplicate eye-piece, and suddenly his words
were checked as he sucked in his breath.

"Good Lord, Fanning--"

I saw it also--a tiny puff of electronic light at the top of the
oncoming patrolship's dome. There was nothing else to be seen, I
searched the starfield in that second of premonitory horror. Absolutely
nothing visible. Just that puff of light where an electronic shot must
have struck.

"Fanning--you saw that?" Captain Wilkes murmured.

"Yes."

Another few seconds. It seemed an eternity. And then the Patrolship
wavered; drunkenly lurching and slowly turning over! Ghastly silent
drama, out there in space ten thousand miles away. We could not see its
details; just the tiny image of the ship, lurching, turning end over
end.

A derelict in space. My horrified imagination pictured the air hissing
out, spewing wreckage and bodies out perhaps. Ship of the dead, all in
those seconds. Then it was hanging poised, slowly turning on a drunken
axis of its own. The leprous, smashed dome was for a moment visible as
it turned.

The Phantom raider had struck again!

       *       *       *       *       *

My comrades. Thirty of them meeting their deaths out there in that
moment. The thought numbed me. Captain Wilkes had leaped to his feet.

"Why--why, good Lord, it got them! And now--us next!"

Our convoy gone. Unquestionably that was because the phantom was after
us!

"What are you going to do?" I murmured. "Not tell the passengers--"

"Good Lord, no. Nor the crew. What good would it do? We're not armed
with long-range guns--no preparations to make. Only spread panic maybe
among my men. Some of them might want to try and persuade me to turn
back to Earth."

"And you're not going to do that?"

"Hell, no." Captain Wilkes was a choleric fellow. His ham-like fist
crashed down on his desk. "I was told to run this cargo to Mars, and
by Heaven, Fanning, that's what I'm going to do. Make a run for it."
He swung for his controls. "I can use a greater Earth-repulsion and
once we get past Asteroid-9, by a little jockeying I can use that, too.
We'll see if there's any damn' phantom-ship going to overtake us."

It was a weird, gruesome feeling, realization that in all probability
we were being pursued by something we couldn't see. Something still ten
thousand miles away. Could it overtake us? Certainly not in less than a
few hours, perhaps not even in a day. And then, would there be a flash
of an electronic space-gun, weirdly from its unseen source? The crash
of our hull, or our pressure-dome exploding outward; the wild rush
and hiss of our air out into the vacuum of space? And then death by
suffocation all in a minute or two.

The thing had me shuddering. I must have been murmuring something of my
thoughts, for Captain Wilkes retorted:

"If they crash us with a shot they might very easily injure the cargo.
More apt to try running in close to us--a boarding party with powered
pressure-suits." His fist thumped his desk again. "An' by Heaven, if
they try that--you got a gun, Fanning?"

"Yes," I agreed. I had a small weapon of the paralyzer-gun type,
efficient at a few feet of range. But of what use against an enemy you
couldn't see?

Wilkes presently dismissed me. "You keep your own counsel," he told me.
He lowered his voice. "By what your Chief Rankin intimated, there's at
least a reasonable possibility that we've some damn' spy on board."

"Well, if that's a fact," I said, "the Phantom won't try cracking us
with a long-range gun and killing the spy as well as the rest of us."

"Exactly. That's what I'm counting on. Keep your eyes open and your
ears stretched. Report to me anything that looks queer."

       *       *       *       *       *

I left him presently. Dogged, indomitable old fellow. He was seated
grimly at his desk with his astronomical charts as he figured by what
ingenuity he could map an emergency course to give the little _Seven
Stars_ its greatest speed. The ship was silent as I padded the length
of the superstructure roof and went down to the stern triangle. By
ship-routine it was now about eleven at night. The Martian Passengers
were out of sight, sleeping probably. None of the crew were about,
save the man in the aft peak with his small, wide-angle telescope.
The wreck of the patrolship was certainly far beyond sight of the
naked eye. This stern lookout evidently hadn't spotted it, and in a
moment now I knew it would be beyond his range also. The captain and I,
doubtless, were the only ones who knew what had happened.

I went forward along the side deck. In the men's smoking lounge,
amidships in the superstructure, I heard voices, caught a glimpse as I
went past of Arthur Jerome, the television lecturer, and Livingston,
the Earth Ambassador to Mars, in there with Green, the ship's purser.
Did that mean that Brenda Carson and her brother were still on the
forward peak? I went cautiously forward. They were there--the blobs of
them, faintly starlit, showed where they were standing together at one
of the side bull's-eyes. Upon impulse, instead of joining them, I slid
unseen into the shadows of a loading engine.

"Oh, Philip--" The girl's voice was faintly audible in the silence.
"I'm so frightened. You think we can do it safely?"

"Yes, of course. I'll make sure--" He lowered his voice and I lost the
rest of it.

"When?" she murmured.

"I'll just take a look presently. We're not there yet--closer in a few
hours."

What, in Heaven's name, could that mean? Were these two spies, planted
here on the _Seven Stars_ by the phantom-bandits? Were they discussing
the attack which Captain Wilkes and I feared? Certainly it did not
seem so. Young Philip Carson wasn't much older than his sister. Slim,
handsome, rather effeminate-looking fellow, with a weak jaw and slack
mouth. He wore black and white trousers, somewhat like hers. He and she
seemed devoted to each other. Rankin had told me that Philip Carson had
a bad record of gambling and bad companions. Was the girl entangled
because of him?

My mind went back to the meager details which Rankin had given me.
Brenda and Philip Carson came of a cultured and once-rich family in
New York. Their father--their only close living relative--had been a
research physicist. An eccentric old fellow; he had built a laboratory
down on Long Island where, working in secret, he was laboriously
experimenting on something. Two years ago the place had exploded.
Presumably he had been killed. But in the wreckage his body had not
been found; nor was there anything to give a clue as to what he had
been doing there.

Had he been building the phantom space-raider? The thought was obvious
now. Brenda and Philip had denied knowing, when the authorities had
questioned them. And now they were going to Mars, on this of all
voyages, and for no reason that they had been able to give. Was the
vanished eccentric Professor Robert Carson the Phantom raider? My heart
leaped as I heard another fragment from the girl.

"You think you got his message correctly?"

"Yes, of course I did."

"If we can do it safely--Oh, Phil--the location."

"I've got it all figured out, Bren," he insisted. "Even made a little
map--got it in the wallet of my jacket."

That stiffened me. I could see the blob of him standing there with
her. The folds of his hooded cape, like hers, fell almost to his feet.
But his arm held the cape draped a little to one side. I could see his
white shirt; he was wearing no jacket. It would be in his sleeping
cubby then.

For a moment more I crouched in the shelter of the little loading
engine; I caught a few more fragments, but they were not important.

       *       *       *       *       *

A wallet in young Carson's cubby, with a map in it? I shifted silently
backward, reached the side deck and padded aft. The smoking lounge was
empty now. The little interior cross corridor of the superstructure
was dim and silent. Carson and his sister had connecting rooms, with
corridor doors side by side. Cautiously I tried them. They were locked.

In a moment I was out to the side deck. Carson's window was closed;
I pulled at the vertical sash and it yielded, slid outward. The room
was dim, with just a faint glow of the corridor light coming over the
lattice-grille above the door.

I jumped over the sill; landed silently in the room. No need for any
lengthy search; his jacket was here, folded on a chair. The wallet was
in a pocket. Swiftly I riffled through it, came upon a folded square
of notepaper. The map? I was opening it. By the dim sheen of reflected
light I could see its penciled scrawl. And suddenly I was stricken
by the sound of footsteps in the corridor outside. Someone coming. I
jumped on the chair. Through the grille I could catch a glimpse of a
cloaked figure coming along the corridor. Carson or the girl--in that
second I could not tell which.

But at all events I had no desire to get caught here by either of them.
I got back out the window just in time. Aft down the side deck there
was the blob of a loitering figure, a big, bulky silhouette. It was
Walter Livingston, the Earth-Mars Ambassador. The tip of his cigarette
glowed in the dimness as he stood by one of the side bull's-eyes. Was
he watching these windows of Carson and the girl? Did he see me? I had
no way of telling. I ran forward, ducked around the superstructure
corner. The bow-peak triangle was empty; the chairs where the group of
us had been sitting were still here.

There was enough light for me to examine the folded sheet of paper I
had purloined. It seemed a crude map. A rough, penciled sketch. But a
map of what? There were the ragged outlines of what might be intended
to represent mountains. The scribbled word: "Andros." A dotted line
through what might be a mountain pass. And then a tiny X.

I stared at the thing, puzzled. A few hundred years ago the fabled
surface-ship pirates of Earth's romantic sea-history supposedly made
maps like this. Maps of buried treasure. Pirates' gold. Were Carson and
his young sister after some treasure? Where? On Earth? Mars? Little
Deimos? Asteroid-9? That thought leaped at me. Certainly they had
shown a queer interest in my chance remark about Asteroid-9. We were
not far from it now. Fifty thousand miles perhaps--would pass at our
closest point to it in an hour of two. I stared through the bull's-eye
beside me. It was down there, diagonally ahead of us--a full-round,
putty-colored disk, with the configurations of its mountains and the
turgid clouds of its atmosphere beginning to be visible.

But what could any of that have to do with the Phantom raider, or the
attack on the patrolship and the impending attack upon us? Surely there
was no treasure on Asteroid-9. The treasure, if you could call it that,
was right here on board the little _Seven Stars_.

I was crouching now in the shadow of the loading engine on the
bow-peak, puzzled by my rush of thoughts. Should I take this to Captain
Wilkes? Vaguely I realized that perhaps I should, but something stopped
me. My own instinctive feelings for Brenda Carson. She seemed somehow
so pathetic. Surely she was no plotting murderess. Her brother--yes.
But the girl--protecting someone she loved? Was her father really the
Phantom raider? His invention an X-flyer endowed with mechanical,
electronic invisibility? I knew that such a thing was scientifically
possible, of course. But Professor Carson was a frail old man. And my
mind leaped back to some other things Chief Rankin had told me. The
Phantom was thought to be a notorious Earth-criminal who, a few years
ago, had been known as the "Chameleon." A fellow skilled in the art of
wax disguise so that none of the Earth crime-trackers really knew what
he looked like. He was wanted in both Great New York and Great London
for mail-tube murders. Nothing was known of his identity save that he
had once had an operation for a fractured skull, where in the back of
the skull a big triangular platinum plate had been inserted to take the
place of the shattered bone. A criminal surgeon, dying, had confessed
that much; had said he had performed the operation. And then he had
mumbled something about the Chameleon being the Phantom raider.

Surely such a notorious skilled adventurer could not be old Professor
Carson. I decided not to have Brenda and Philip hauled before the
captain now for questioning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thoughts are instant things. I was crouching there behind the engine
loader no more than a moment; and suddenly down the other side deck
just beyond the smoking lounge, I saw a moving figure. A slight figure
in dark cloak and hood--the bottoms of black and white trousers were
visible. Brenda? It made my heart pound. For a second I stared as she
ducked into a doorway. I was there in twenty seconds, until I saw the
cloaked shadow of her going down a companion ladder into the ship's
hold.

Swiftly I followed. Down two eight-foot levels, and then I caught
another glimpse of her as she moved into the lower passage. It was
a metal catwalk with small cubbies opening from it. The ship's
air-renewers, ventilating system; a cubby controlling the hull
gravity-plate shifters; other mechanism rooms. She went past them, a
furtive little shadow. And stopped at what seemed the door to one of
the tiny pressure chambers of an exit-porte in the side of the hull.

"Oh, you, Mr. Fanning? What do you want down here?" The voice in the
silence so startled me that I whirled. It was Kellogg, the ship's
gravity-control operator. In his shirtsleeves, pipe in hand, with a
green eyeshade on his forehead, he had seen me from the door of his
little cubby.

"Why--" I murmured. "Just coming down to see you." I turned to join
him. And suddenly a buzzer in his control room interrupted him. I stood
while he answered it--an audio-tube for direct voice-transmission.

"Yes, Captain Wilkes--" And then Kellogg gasped and clutched at the
table beside him; then he whirled upon me, his face chalk-white. "Our
radio-helio is smashed! Someone--something smashed it!"

Our little _Seven Stars_ was cut off from Earth or Mars communication!
Captain Wilkes had evidently decided to flash a call for help to Earth,
and found that the apparatus had been smashed! But even that startling
news instantly was stricken from Kellogg and me. Out in the corridor
quite near us a low scream sounded! And then there was the sound of air
hissing!

"What the devil!" Kellogg gasped.

My gun was in my hand as we ran. There was nothing in sight on the dim
little catwalk. The scream had died. The air-hissing stopped.

"Somebody went into the pressure-chamber!" Kellogg muttered. "What in
the hell--"

"The pressure-chamber door-slide was closed. I knew the mechanism
of these exit-portes. There were four of them in the hull-bottom of
the _Seven Stars_--two on each side. There was an inner door-slide; a
sealed pressure-room some ten feet square and six feet high; and an
outer door-slide. Ordinarily the mechanism was automatic. The outer
slide must be closed if the inner one was open. To make an exit, one
went into the pressure-room; closed the catwalk door, and with manual
control slowly opened the outer slide, so that the air in the sealed
room would hiss out into space. After which, with a thirty-second
interval, the outer slide would close and the inner one slowly open,
admitting the ship's air again into the pressure-room.

"Someone worked the manual controls wrong!" Kellogg was muttering. He
gestured to where there was a duplicate set of controls out here in the
corridor. "That outer slide opened too quickly!"

We could hear the last of the air rushing out with a wild gush. A stab
of horror went into my heart. Brenda Carson in there, trying to escape
from the ship--not knowing how to work the controls--opening that outer
slide too quickly.

The air in the pressure-room was gone in a few seconds. Then we heard
the click of the outer slide closing. The inner door began very slowly
opening. With a muttered curse of impatience Kellogg twitched at the
control levers here. The inner door slid wide.

We clutched at the catwalk rail to hold ourselves against the gust
of wind as the little pressure-room filled. And then we rushed into
it. Pressure suits, powered as I knew by tiny gravity-repulsers and a
rocket-stream mechanism, stood here in racks. One of them lay here on
the floor, entangled with a rack-post so that it had not blown out.
Brenda evidently had tried to get into it and failed.

"Look! Good Lord--poor little thing--" Kellogg murmured. He had slid
aside a tiny bull's-eye shade. Through it a segment of space outside
the hull was visible.

We had only a glimpse of a ghastly body, mangled by the explosion of
the pressure within itself, out in the pressureless vacuum of space.
It floated past us, some forty feet out. Held poised by the gravity,
the nearness and bulk of the _Seven Stars_. Horrible little satellite,
already finding an orbit of its own, slowly circling around us.

       *       *       *       *       *

I staggered back from the bull's-eye. As I rushed back along the
catwalk my horrified mind was clamoring with the vague thought: had
Brenda operated that pressure-mechanism wrongly? Or had someone on the
catwalk, at the controls there, done it?

That thought, too, was stricken away. I reached the forward deck
triangle. The bow-peak lookout was calling up to Captain Wilkes:

"Passenger overboard! Brenda Carson! It's Miss Brenda Carson!"

Dead girl in the space-light. I could not look at the horrible thing as
it rounded our bow and came slowly floating past again.

"You, Fanning--what's happened? Brenda Carson, he says."

Arthur Jerome stood calling to me from his stateroom door at the bow
superstructure corner. He was in his nightrobe with a negligee hastily
wrapped around him.

"Yes--" I gasped. "Brenda Carson. She--"

"And I heard something about radio-helio room wrecked." The big, florid
television lecturer seemed in a panic. Experienced space-traveler,
but he had never run into anything like this before. I wouldn't blame
him for his terror. But I had no time for him now. The ship was in
confusion. I could hear the Martians, below deck in the bow, shouting
with frightened questions. Two or three members of the crew were
running up to Captain Wilkes who was outside his turret calling down
orders.

I ran down the side deck. One of the excited crew stopped me. "You seen
young Philip Carson? Captain wants him."

I shook my head and ran on. Somebody else was calling Carson's name. I
mounted the companionway to the superstructure roof. Had Philip Carson
vanished? They couldn't find him? Well, what I knew about Philip Carson
now I'd certainly tell Captain Wilkes! Suddenly I realized fully that
because of Brenda I had wanted to keep silent--but there was no need of
that now.

From the superstructure roof, as I ran forward along it, I could see
down to the side deck. A cloaked figure there. Philip Carson. I had
just a glimpse as he darted into a door under me. A ladder was nearby.
My little paralyzer-gun was in my hand as I climbed down the ladder,
reached the dark side-deck. The commotion was all up forward; there was
no one here at the moment. The corridor door into which Carson had run
was beside me. I ran into it, ten feet or so and into a cross corridor.
Came to his doorway. It was locked. I ran around to the deck again. His
window was near here.

The glassite pane of the window was closed and locked. The inner
fabric-shade was drawn down. What was he doing in there? Searching for
his map? For other things which might be incriminating?

I had a few instruments hidden in my clothes, tiny devices which we
of the Interplanetary Patrol sometimes have occasion to use--a small
electric listener and a tiny X-ray fluoroscope screen. The listener
yielded the sound of a man's panting breath, his furtive, fumbling
movements within the dark little cubby. Then I tried the X-ray, through
the fabric-shrouded glassite pane of the window. It shot its invisible,
soundless rays through the window into the cubby. The little hooded
three-inch screen in my palm glowed with the greenish fluoroscopic
X-ray image.

A kneeling skeleton was revealed--the skeleton of a man kneeling in
there with his back to me. I stared, and suddenly gasped, with my
breath stopped. The back of the skeleton's skull was visible--the
image-shadow there was of a different density from the bones of his
skull! A dark triangular patch--not bone, but metal! The man with the
metal skull! Philip Carson, of notorious Chameleon fame! The Phantom
raider! I had him here identified at last! Had him trapped here!

       *       *       *       *       *

With a blow of my gun-butt I smashed through the glassite pane; tore
the fabric-shade aside. This room was dark. I had an instant's glimpse
of the dark blob of his crouching figure. There was the whiz of
something he threw at me; the tinkling of glass as some fragile little
thing struck against my forehead. I recall that my paralyzer ray darted
into the dark room. Perhaps it caught him, held him for a second.
But my head was reeling; my senses swiftly fading, with a cold sweat
breaking out all over me.

And then I was aware that I had fallen to the deck with my gun
clattering away. With my last dim thought came the realization that
I was fainting. That tiny glass globe which had broken against my
forehead--I knew what it was! A little bomb of acetycholine, a weird
drug to lower the blood-pressure and cause me to faint. I fought, but
it was useless. My senses faded.

Then after an interval I seemed vaguely to be conscious that someone
was bending over me. A dark cloak.... Again I knew only blankness;
and then slowly my senses were coming back. Weak, dizzy, with my head
roaring, my body bathed in cold sweat, I found myself still lying on
the dark deck. Perhaps I had been out only a moment or two. I could
still hear the commotion up forward. I staggered to my feet; saw the
cloaked figure as it ran into the superstructure. Carson making his
getaway! I had a glimpse of him again, two levels down on the dim
catwalk, and saw him dart into the pressure-chamber. I was too late
getting there. The metal pressure-door closed in my face.

But I had him! I could do to him what he had done to Brenda! I started
for the manual controls. I could open that outer slide, let the
pressure-room air out with a rush before he could get into his space
suit, blast him out into space, or suffocate him in the pressure-room.

But I had over-taxed my strength. My blood-pressure was still too low
from that accursed drug. My senses were fading again and I sank to the
floor. Weakly I tried to call Kellogg. But he wasn't in his little
nearby cubby now.

I did not quite lose consciousness this time. I heard the air slowly
going out through the outside opening slide. Then heard the click
as the automatic mechanism closed it. The corridor slide in another
moment, automatically was slowly opening. The rush of air into the
little room helped revive me. I got to my feet again; ran into the
room. I could see the empty space on the rack where he had taken one of
the powered pressure suits and escaped. At the bull's-eye observation
porte I had a glimpse of him--a bloated figure in his air-filled
suit--a tiny comet with a radiance of rocket-stream like a tail behind
it.

The blob of him in a moment had vanished. Where did he expect to go?
Diagonally ahead, and far down in the glittering starfield, the round,
putty-colored disk of Asteroid-9 was visible.

My strength had almost fully come back to me now. Quickly I got
into another of the power-suits. They were a somewhat old-fashioned
model, but adequate enough, a double-shelled fabric with electronic
pressure-absorbing current in it; air-renewers, and the small
power-units. I bloated the suit in another moment; closed the corridor
slide. I let the air rush out through the outer slide as quickly as I
dared.

And then I catapulted out, not bothering with the rocket-stream but
using full gravity-repulsion against the bulk of the _Seven Stars_. Far
down, ahead of me, for an instant I could just see the speck which was
the fleeing Carson. Over me the bulk of the _Seven Stars_ hung, a great
alumite cylinder, receding, dwindled by distance until it was only a
tiny speck, lost among the blazing stars.

With the huge, dull-lead disk of Asteroid-9 growing in visual size
under me, I hurtled downward, using the asteroid's full attraction now
as I sped after the escaping Carson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alone in space; a little drifting world of yourself. It is an eerie
feeling. I have no idea how long that descent to Asteroid-9 took; one
loses all sense of time as well as space, hurtling alone through the
starry universe. The _Seven Stars_ long since was gone, vanished in the
black illimitable distances of the blazing firmament above me. Head
down, with full attraction in the little gravity plates of the padded
shoulders of my bloated suit, like a diver I headed, hurtling for the
dull-lead surface.

I had picked up velocity swiftly. The great round disk of Asteroid-9
widened, spread, crawled outward and seemed visually coming up. For
a time, sunlight was a thin stream on its distant curving limb of
mountains. Then I went into the cone of its shadow. At once the look of
the weird leaden mountains changed; starlight and earthlight mellow
with a faint sheen that struck down through the clouds and tinged the
giant ragged peaks with a tinting glow.

The clouds, still far down, were broken in thin stratas here over this
hemisphere. The disk had widened now so that presently it filled all
the lower half of the firmament; and a visual convexity had come to
it. I tried to calculate my velocity by the apparent enlarging of the
desolate scene as it rushed up at me.

Where was Carson? Long since, I had lost sight of the tiny speck
which had been he. Was I overtaking him? I could not tell. With the
leaden glow of the asteroid's surface as a background, I knew I could
be quite close to him and still not see him. Undoubtedly he was not
using his rocket-stream now; had only used it in starting, for quick
repulsion against the ship's hull. I was sure he could not be very far
below me unless, during the time which had passed, he had headed in
some other direction, departing from a straight, swift descent. Could
he drop faster than I was dropping? I doubted it. Unless he was very
skilled--or very desperate, holding the asteroid's attraction to a
dangerous point. I held my own until I dared hold it no longer. I was
in the upper atmosphere now. In every direction, save above me, the
planet's dark surface spread out to its jagged, circular horizon.

Then at last I dared not hold the attraction longer. With all the tiny
plates in my suit electronized to full repulsion, I began slackening my
fall. Still I had not glimpsed Carson. Disappointment was within me.
What a long chance was this! A five-hundred-mile hemisphere of utter
desolation. No food; no water. And I had no weapons or instruments,
save the single little paralyzer-gun which I had snatched from the deck
when I recovered my senses. I was beginning to be sorry now that I had
so hastily left the _Seven Stars_. No chance of getting back; the die
was cast, here on little Asteroid-9 pitted against this resourceful,
youthful astonishing Interplanetary murderer.

What was Carson's plan? Escape from the ship had been a desperate
necessity for him, of course. And my memory was back to the fragments
I had heard between him and Brenda. I could understand them better
now! They had planned from the beginning to escape to Asteroid-9! And
poor little Brenda, entangled in this criminality with her brother, had
left the ship first, and met her death. Memory of the map they had had
came suddenly to me. I had it in my pocket now; I tried to conjure what
it had looked like. Outlines of mountains; the word Andros. Was that
the name of one of the asteroid's mountain peaks? Probably it was. I
cursed myself for my ignorance. The Phantom raider probably was based
upon this desolate asteroid. A hide-out here, with food and water and
possibly with some of the raiders' men living here. And Carson was
dropping now to join them.

What chance had I against a layout like that?

But I had no choice now but hurtle downward, trying to check my descent
as best I could. For a time, as I came out from under the clouds, with
the dark, fantastic surface of naked, ragged little peaks no more than
twenty or thirty thousand feet down, it seemed that I had been too
brash; I was dropping too fast; never would I be able to check it. I
would crash....

       *       *       *       *       *

But that, too, was an error, born of my momentarily despairing
thoughts. I was presently poised, some ten thousand feet up. The
highest of the little peaks was no more than half that. They stood
in a tumbled mass--jagged needle-spires--rocks and buttes and great
round-top boulders, with ravines and gullies between them. Scene of
utter, naked desolation, convulsed landscape, frozen into immobility.

And suddenly my heart was pounding with abrupt exultation. Far down,
where the starlight and Earthlight bathed a little peak, I saw the
speck which was the descending Carson! Just for a second the tiny
outline of his bloated suit was clear against the background of a
shining rock. Then he dropped into an inky shadow and was gone again.

I tried to mark the spot. A little triplet of spires, standing like
sentinels above a small dark valley. Was that Andros, a landmark here?
Probably it was.

I was down in perhaps another half hour, with the triplet of spires
standing up against what was now a sullen sky of broken leaden clouds
through which the starlight and Earthlight fitfully shone. I had
landed, by all that I could judge, about half an Earth-mile from where
Carson had dropped. Had he seen me coming down above him? Perhaps.
Perhaps not.

With my helmet off, and with my lungs panting as they tried to adjust
themselves to the weird air, I crouched for a moment in the shadow of
a rock, peering, listening. There was nothing. It seemed a dead world,
myself its only inhabitant--a silence so utter that my own breath, my
pounding heart were roaring in my ears.

I started in a moment, heading along a ridged, fantastic little terrain
at the bottom of a shadowed valley. The deflated suit hung in baggy
folds upon me; the bulky helmet was folded, hanging down from the back
of my neck. Half a mile to where Carson had dropped. Gun in hand I
advanced as cautiously as I could, until presently I was following a
ragged ditch with the triple spires of Andros looming above me.

Was this where Carson had landed? So far as I could judge, it seemed
so. I was tense, alert with the vague, horrible feeling that I was
walking into ambush.

Then ahead of me, in a distant shadow, it seemed that there was a faint
stir of movement. Soundlessly I melted down to the lead-gray rocks. I
could not see the shadow now, but every instant I expected the luminous
darkness to be stabbed with a bursting bolt. There was nothing.

Suddenly the stillness was broken by a faint scraping sound. It seemed
fairly close, and into the darkness from whence it had come I aimed my
ray; pressed its lever.

There was a faint, gasping scream; then a choked silence. I jumped to
my feet, holding the paralyzer-gun leveled as it throbbed and quivered
in my grip. Got him! He couldn't move. He was rooted there in the
darkness, with rigid, stiffened muscles as the ray held him.

I saw him in an instant, the dark blob of him almost merged with the
shadows, with his baggy space-suit like my own deflated in folds upon
him, and his helmet folded back.

Triumphant, I dashed forward; and then stopped transfixed, amazed.
The paralyzed figure, stricken upright here on the rocks wasn't young
Carson! Above the folded helmet there was a head of bobbed blonde hair!
Brenda! Brenda, not dead! Not that ghastly thing that was a gruesome
little satellite of the _Seven Stars_!

I saw her rigid face, with goggling mouth and staring eyes. Brenda
mute, stricken by my ray. I snapped it off frantically; called to her
as I dashed up. And as the ray released her, I saw her waver; then,
with her knees buckling, she sank into a little heap on the ground.

If only I had some water to dash into her face! Frantically I knelt,
holding her head, brushing her curls from her damp forehead. The ray, I
knew, upon her for so short a time, should not quite do this to her. It
was her emotion, her terror which had caused her to faint.

My mind went back to that hooded figure, cloaked, which I had chased
in the ship's corridor. I had had a vague indecision, then had decided
it was Brenda--and the ship's lookout at the bow-peak had confirmed my
fears. But that had been Philip, and it was Brenda whom I had chased
that second time, following her out the porte, hurtling into space
after her.

"Brenda--"

She opened her eyes presently, bewildered, but she was unharmed.

"Oh--you--I was so frightened."

       *       *       *       *       *

I held her as she recovered, and presently she was filling in all the
grim details of her tragic little story. Whatever her brother Philip's
propensities for gambling and bad companions, he had been no criminal.
They had lost their father; had been truthful when they said they did
not know what Professor Carson had been building in his lonely little
laboratory. But they knew enough so that when the Phantom bandit began
his mysterious raids, they suspected it was their father's ship; the
laboratory explosion merely a blind. He had often mentioned, when they
were children, that the dream of his life was to discover and perfect
electronic invisibility.

"Albert Einstein of two hundred years ago," she was telling me now.
"Father studied his writings and his theories very closely. He said
that the secret of practical mechanical invisibility was clearly
forecast by Einstein's discoveries."

"And you think now," I murmured, "your father is this mysterious
Phantom raider?"

Her little face clouded. Her blue eyes, misty with Earthlight which
was striking down upon us now through the clouds, gazed at me with a
pathetic appeal.

"We did not know. We--we were afraid so. And then Philip got a message
one night--"

Weird occurrence. Young Carson had been on the porch of their Long
Island home. From the sky overhead, where nothing was to be seen, had
come a little stab of waving white light. A helio signal. From their
father? Certainly it seemed so. It told them to come secretly to
Asteroid-9. He would be there, at the base of Andros. And so they had
come to try and help their father.

"Help him?" I murmured.

"Yes. Oh, Mr. Fanning--"

"Jim is shorter," I interjected.

"--Jim, you see, we couldn't believe father is a criminal. Captured
maybe and forced to operate his ship by these bandits, and appealing to
us for help."

Desperate adventure indeed. But they had tackled it; had taken passage
on the little _Seven Stars_ which they understood would pass very close
to Asteroid-9, this voyage. And they had known completely nothing of
the _Seven Stars'_ cargo or of any plot which the raider might have
against her! Brenda gasped now when I told her of those angles.

And there were still other angles that puzzled me. "Brenda, have you
ever heard of an Earth-criminal called the Chameleon?"

She had not; and when I described his exploits of a few years ago,
she was convinced that by no possible chance could her aged father
have been secretly doing things like that. Nor Philip either, for that
matter. She declared it vehemently, and I believed her. But the man
with the metal skull had been on the _Seven Stars_ as stowaway, or spy
among the passengers, ship's officers or crew. I had seen him there in
young Carson's stateroom.

Brenda, when I was chasing her, had eluded me. "I saw you fighting with
somebody at Philip's window," she told me now. "I was going to escape
from the ship then."

"Even though Philip was dead, you were going on with your plans alone?"

"Yes, why not?" She smiled her twisted little smile. "Then I saw you
fall to the deck. I ran, bent over you. I--I thought you were dead. So
I--I ran down to the porte and took off. Philip and I had planned it so
carefully. Oh, poor Philip!"

"He didn't miscalculate those air-mechanisms," I muttered. "That damned
villain must have been there in the corridor for an instant while I was
talking to Kellogg, and shoved the controls--killed Philip."

And I had tried to do the same thing to Brenda! I could only thank the
Lord now that I had failed!

       *       *       *       *       *

The two of us, alone here on Asteroid-9. No food nor water. Perhaps the
only inhabitants of this desolate little world.

Abruptly she was gripping me. "Look--Jim--look there!"

I followed her gesture. Up in the leaden sky beyond the looming triple
spires of Andros, a tiny speck had appeared. A ship coming down.
Breathlessly we watched. In a few minutes it was a little oblong blob.

"It's coming this way, Brenda."

"Yes."

It seemed circling a little. By the look it would land on a small level
plateau some quarter of a mile from us. We stared, mute, transfixed,
watching.

And then suddenly I sucked in my breath with a new shock of startled
amazement. There was something familiar about that cylindrical alumite
hull with the curving pressure-dome above it, and those quadruplicate
tail-fins.

It wasn't the bandit flyer! "That's the _Seven Stars_!" I gasped.

The _Seven Stars_ unquestionably. We saw her clearly in a moment, as
she circled some five miles away from us and headed slowly for the
small plateau. Captain Wilkes undoubtedly had changed his mind about
trying to make a run for it. With chaos on his ship--his radio-helio
wrecked so that he could not summon another convoy--he had headed down
here to hide his vessel. And he did not know, of course, that the
Phantom raider's base was here! He had brought his little treasure ship
into the very camp of the enemy!

"We must warn him, Brenda."

The blob of the little liner dropped from our sight behind a line of
broken rock-spires as she settled to the plateau. But we could tell
within a few hundred yards of where she had landed. It took us only
a few minutes to run there, with the slighter gravity of Asteroid-9
aiding us in our leaps across the intervening little chasms. And then
we saw the _Seven Stars_, where she rested placidly on the level
surface. One of her lower portes was open, but there were no figures
out on the dim rocks.

There was silence inside as we entered the dark little
pressure-chamber. As always customary in port, both its outer and inner
door-slides were open, admitting the fresh outer air.

There was no one to greet us on the lower level catwalk. Its single
overhead light was burning. We passed Kellogg's little cubby. No
one was in it. Then we mounted the companion ladder; came to the
superstructure corridor.

Queer, this silence. I held Brenda, with my heart chilling, sinking.
It seemed suddenly that we were prowling like ghouls. The ship was so
cold, so silent. With the ventilating fans stilled, the interior air
here was turning fetid. I had an impulse to call out. Captain Wilkes,
Controlman Kellogg, Purser Green, the crew, the passengers--where were
they all? But abruptly I was furtive, with a slow, horrified terror
dawning in me so that in the dim corridor I stood suddenly and turned
to Brenda.

"We'd better get back out of here," I murmured. "Something queer--"

"Jim--look!"

We stood frozen, transfixed. At the deck doorway a blob was lying.
Captain Wilkes. Dead--suffocated. I swept Brenda away that she might
not get a second glimpse of his puffed, mangled flesh where it had
burst outward from its own pressure. There had been a vacuum here! Out
in space the little _Seven Stars_ quite evidently had lost her interior
air!

Ship of the dead! I took only one look at the dimly starlit deck
triangle; the bodies lying strewn there. Little group of humans who
had gathered there in a last frenzied panic, clinging to each other,
falling one upon the other--suffocating, dying.

Nothing but the dead here.

But this tragedy had happened out in space! And we had seen the _Seven
Stars_ calmly coming down, gracefully, skilfully landing!

I swung back to Brenda. I gasped, "Good Lord, we've got to get out!"

Too late a realization! I was aware suddenly of a dark glistening shape
behind us in the corridor--a man in a sleek tight-fitting black robe.
His white face, evil with a leer, grinned at us. Brenda screamed. I
tried to defend us from another dark blob that leaped from a doorway
beside me. And then something struck my head. I was aware only that
Brenda was screaming as I felt myself falling, my senses hurtling off
into the soundless abyss of unconsciousness.

       *       *       *       *       *

I came at last into a dim half-consciousness in which I realized that I
was being carried. I could feel the rhythmic step; and then I knew that
I was slung over a man's shoulder and that he was walking with me on
the rocks. Other dark forms were beside us. With blurred vague vision I
could see the little _Seven Stars_ which we had left.

And near at hand another spaceship had landed now, here upon little
Asteroid-9. I was being carried to it. I could glimpse it only
vaguely as I hung inert on my captor's shoulder. It was a small
ship, smaller than the _Seven Stars_, and of a type I had never seen
before--barrel-finned and with a spreading fan-tail, somewhat in the
British Earth-design. It rested on the rocks like a long, thin bird,
with body puffed out underneath. Over it was the conventional glassite
pressure dome, low-slung so that its top was no more than ten feet
above the single deck. A dead-black bird. The starlight and mellow
Earthlight were on it, but the black metal surface did not shimmer.

My senses wafted away again into another blank interval.... And then
dimly my hearing came....

"We're glad to have you, little Brenda. You are a treasure indeed. A
woman among us--to cook and sew with woman's duties. Your father will
appreciate that. You do, eh Carson?"

Familiar, suave, ironic voice with a rich booming timber to it of
assumed graciousness. I knew I had heard that voice before, but with my
swimming senses now I could not quite place it. I felt my eyes opening
to a blur of swaying outlines.

"You let her alone." The thin frightened voice of an old man. Brenda's
father.

The dim scene clarified as my strength came. I was lying on the
floor of a little circular control room, with a black shape beside
me. And there were three other figures: Brenda, still garbed in her
baggy deflated space-suit, with her white tense face staring in my
direction; her gray-haired, thin father, in black trousers and black
shirt, seated in a little metal chair beside her. And the other figure
at the controls--a big, heavy-set man in tight-fitting black garment.
Tubelight shone on his florid face. Arthur Jerome, Interplanetary
traveler, Earth television lecturer on things astronomical! The man
with the metal skull, unquestionably! Notorious chameleon of former
years, and now the Phantom Raider!

"This Fanning comes to his senses," a voice beside me growled.

"Ah, so?" It brought Jerome with a leap, and then he bent over me. "So
that blow on your head didn't kill you, Fanning?"

"No," I said. "You, Jerome. If only I had known--"

"Quite true," he chuckled. "Hindsight is very easy. And now we have
you here. You will be useful, if you have any sense, A member of the
Interplanetary Patrol, you should be skilled in many things of our
adventuring in space. Romantic life, Fanning. Did you ever read of
Captain Kidd, so long ago? One might say I am his modern incarnation.
Romantic idea, eh Fanning?"

A little mad, this fellow. I could well imagine it. But a clever
scheming, murderous villain for all that. "Much money for you," he
added slyly. "I treat all my men well. There are fifteen of us here."

"I like money," I said with an assumption of sullenness. "But there are
a lot of things I want to know."

I found that I was still garbed in the space-suit, but my weapon was
gone. I was presently allowed to sit up in a chair beside Brenda and
her father. But for all my assumption that I could be bribed, it did
not deceive the wily Jerome. The two other black-garbed men here were
closely watching me.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Phantom flyer. From here in its tiny control room, it did not seem
unusually weird. Its fittings a dead-black metal. Its men garbed in
sleek, dead-black, close-fitting fabric suits with black fabric helmets
dangling at the back of the neck.

I could see that we were in space. Through the pressure dome the stars
were glittering in a black firmament. Where were we going? Jerome had
not the slightest objection to telling me. Perhaps in the back of his
mind there was the idea that ultimately he could bribe me, make me one
of his band of cutthroats, useful to him. He was a genial, triumphant
villain now, flushed with his success, pleased to boast of it before
his men and before Brenda.

Old Professor Carson had not intended that his children come to
Asteroid-9 and try to rescue him. That furtive message he had found
opportunity to send was intended to bring the Interplanetary Police.
Jerome had discovered that the message was sent. On the _Seven Stars_
he had thrust Philip out through the porte; and had been searching
Philip's stateroom, fearing that some incriminating evidence might be
there, when I assailed him.

"You were using an X-ray screen?" he jibed at me now. "My metal
headplate? Much good will it ever do you now to know that I was the
Chameleon. A clever fellow, that Chameleon--but I like the Phantom
bandit better, don't you?"

And then he told me gloatingly how easy it had been for him to don
a pressure-suit and hide in the pressure-room while he wrecked the
air-valves and let the air out of the doomed _Seven Stars_. Ship of the
dead, on which he was the only living human until his phantom raider
had come with a boarding party. Then the _Seven_ had been taken to
Asteroid-9, her cargo of electronic weapons transferred to the arriving
X-flyer, and here we were.

"Headed for Deimos," he chuckled. "How glad they will be to see us!
A million decimars of Interplanetary currency, Fanning. You'll want
some of it, surely. And then we'll go looking for another adventure.
Romantic life, eh?"

I tried, during those following hours, very cautiously to convince
Jerome that at heart I might be a villain like himself. Perhaps to some
extent, I succeeded. At all events, there came at last a brief interval
when the controls were locked and Brenda, her father and I were out on
the tiny forepeak in the starlight, momentarily alone. I had found now
that a little freedom of movement was given us. After all, there was
nothing that we could do, trapped here.

"You know where the exit porte of this ship is?" I murmured.

"Yes, yes, of course." Professor Carson was a confused, dazed old man;
his life among these cutthroats for so long now had cowed him. "But
what--what do you think you could do?"

In truth I had no possible idea. But if ever a chance should come for
escape--

"In the pressure chamber," I whispered, "would there be pressure suits?
One for you--"

"Yes. Yes, there are."

A commotion up at the control turret interrupted us. The black-garbed
man at the electro-telescope there was shouting. Jerome came running;
and we followed him up into the turret. He was grim, but ironically
smiling.

"Interplanetary Patrolship off there," he said. "Patrolship-3."

Sister ship of my ill-fated vessel.

"Sighted us?" I murmured.

He shrugged. "Probably. Only three thousand miles away--probably did."
His mouth was set into a grim hard line. In his eyes I saw that gleam
of fanatic irrationality. "Unfortunate, for them. This little vessel of
mine has never been sighted before, you know." His lips twitched with a
grin. "You see how we are dressed here? Why, we've even been down into
Earth's atmosphere--we've landed and made away without discovery. We'll
do that on Deimos. And now this Patrolship--no one on it will ever live
to tell that even for a moment they sighted the Phantom raider!"

He turned to an intricate bank of levers, dials and tiny vacuum
globes that were ranged on a table here at the side of the control
room. Separate from the space-flying mechanisms. The controls of the
mechanical electronic invisibility.

"You'll see us go into action now, Fanning. It should be interesting."

He swung the dials. I felt my senses reel with a weird shock. Brenda
gave a little gasp. There was a momentary quiver of all the ship; a
momentary current-hum. And then silence.

My head cleared; the shock was passed. I gripped the arms of my chair
and stared.

       *       *       *       *       *

A glow like an aura of green radiance suffused the control room. A
green glow of unreality throughout all the little ship. I could see it
out on the forepeak triangle--the black-garbed figures like wraiths
out there in a luminous green gloom. The glassite bull's-eye portes
seemed now to have a green film on them. The stars outside were shut
away. The transparent glassite dome was spread with the same dull-green
opaqueness now. And then I saw, here in the turret walls, in the dome
and in the center of each of the bull's-eyes, little holes through
which a tiny segment of the starfield still was apparent--windows like
dull little eyes puncturing our barrage of invisibility so that we
could see outward through them.

Here in the control room the dull radience shone upon Jerome's
grinning, triumphant face; it was tinted ghastly, putty-colored by the
strange light. And the light glistened on his eyeballs, glowing like
phosphorescence--like the eyes of an animal in a hunter's torchlight at
night.

Everyone here, the same. And I saw old Professor Carson's face--the
face of a dead man. His expression was stamped with his mixed emotions.
This, his science of which he had been so proud, perverted now into
murderous, ghastly warfare by the villainous Jerome.

Then Jerome moved to his space-flight controls; through the tiny
windows in the barrage I could see that our ship was swinging, heading
for the oncoming patrolship. Only three thousand miles apart. They
would be upon each other in a few minutes.

Jerome's footsteps as he moved across the room faintly sounded on
the metal floor-grid. Toneless footsteps in this eerie radiance.
Unreal--they might have been tinkling bells, or harsh thuds. All
timbre had gone from them so that they had lost their identity
completely.

"Not long now, Fanning," Jerome said. "You'll see that ship go to its
death." Ghastly dead voice. Every overtone had gone from it. It could
have been a man's voice, or a woman's. The voice of a dead thing in a
hollow tomb.

"Weird--" I muttered. My own voice the same. And Brenda's, as she
murmured something in horror. All dead, indistinguishable one from the
other.

Down on the forepeak in the sodden dull-green light, I could see the
crew raising the electronic gun-carriages into position now. They were
quite evidently of the most modern Edretch type, squat projectors
with grid faces fitted into vacuum firing portes on each side of the
forepeak. Guns undoubtedly with an effective range of some five hundred
Earth-miles.

X-flyer going into action. The crew, with their dead putty-colored
faces, moved, silently in the soundless ship. Up here in the turret
with us, Jerome's hollow voice was gloating:

"That fool patrolship--they have seen us vanish. They know now who
their adversary is. Want to see them, Fanning?"

There was no need of a telescope now. A magnified image of the oncoming
patrolship as seen through one of the little barrage-vents on our bow,
was spread here on a grid-screen in the control turret. Fascinated with
horror, I watched it--the foreshortened looming bow of the patrolship
clearly outlined against the black velvet of the firmament. It had seen
us vanish, had turned and was heading straight for where it had last
seen us! Even as I watched, the image of it was visibly enlarging. A
thousand miles away now, probably. But almost in a moment it would be
within range!

Then the wily Jerome abruptly swung us sharply. He was still at his
gravity-control levers. The starfield rolled sidewise as we turned in
a great hundred-mile arc. The maneuver was obvious. The patrolship
had marked our position. Jerome quite evidently was not sure what
range-guns his adversary had. He was taking no chances that a premature
shot, aimed by calculation at where we might be, would strike us.

Patrolship-3 had guns very similar to these which I saw now being
erected here on the X-flyer. It could have been a fairly even battle, a
test of electronic battery-strength, of astronomical skill, of reckless
daring--and yet, against an invisible enemy it could be no fight at
all! I knew the commander of Patrolship-3 well. A stalwart, youngish
fellow named Rollins. A man of infinite skill, reckless daring. I could
picture him now in the turret of his ship, with his mouth set grim and
his eyes flashing as he hurtled his little vessel forward. At what?
Nothing but an apparently empty starfield from some unknown quarter
of which a sudden stab of bolt would leap to strike him! I knew what
Commander Rollins was thinking now. He would watch for that first bolt,
and if it did not wreck his ship he would fire at the blankness from
whence the shot had come. His only chance. An almost hopeless one. And
yet he had done his best to hurl himself at us.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were circling now. And suddenly it seemed that Rollins' ship, with
its side spread toward us, off there at some five hundred miles, was
slackening its velocity. Like a lion at bay, stopping, waiting with an
invisible soundless wasp encircling it.

One of the gunners down in our forepeak signaled up to Jerome.

"Not yet," Jerome called. "When we strike, it must smash. There must
not even be a chance of an answering shot."

Maneuvering for the kill. Fascinated, silently I watched as again
we were heading for Rollins' ship. And within me a vague, desperate
thought was growing: There are things through which one has no right to
live. If only I could contrive it.

Jerome was absorbed at his controls, his range-finders and his
calculations. My hand touched Brenda's arm where she sat beside me. I
whispered:

"Brenda, we may not live through this."

"I know."

"I mean, if we were to die, to help that other ship."

She stared at me, and then at her father. Jerome had called the old
man, ordered him to the mechanisms of the vessel's invisibility, where
he sat checking the dial-readings of his intricate apparatus.

Briefly, its operation involved three scientific factors:
De-electronization, thus to create around any metallic object a
barrage of magnetic field of a new type to any previously developed;
color-absorption, by which there can be no reflected light from the
de-electronized object; and the Albert Einstein principle of the
natural bending of light-rays when passing through a magnetic field.
In effect then, the total color-absorption into the de-electronized
object would make it, when viewed externally, a _nothingness_ to see.
A blankness, like an outlined dark hole. But that in itself is not
invisibility--merely a silhouette. The background would be blotted out,
so that the invisible object would be perceived by the background it
obscured. The magnetic field, however, by natural law which Einstein
discovered, bends the light-rays from the background, _around_ the
intervening object. The background thus seems complete. The intervening
object has vanished!

Simple in theory; but it was an intricate little apparatus here which
now old Professor Carson was attending. I stared at him as he bent so
earnestly over it. His beloved brain-child.

For that moment Brenda tenderly regarded him. And then she turned to
me. Her eyes were misted.

"Whatever you think best," she murmured.

Tensely I was waiting my chance. That tiny row of fragile vacuum tubes.

My heart pounded suddenly as Jerome locked his space-controls and
darted down to the forepeak to consult one of his men at a gun-range
finder. I muttered:

"Brenda take your father and get out of here quickly!" A burly,
black-garbed guard was coming in from the turret balcony to watch us in
Jerome's absence. I added in a swift undertone: "Go down with Jerome.
Find some pretense to help him."

They would escape Jerome's wrath and there was just a chance that they
might live through this.

They had only reached the little balcony outside the turret when the
guard came in. I was on my feet.

"Sit down," he commanded.

He was between me and the little table where Carson's tiny row of
vacuum tubes glowed dull-green. And in that second I leaped, head
down like a battering ram. With my skull striking his middle he went
backward, spun as he tried to get his balance. And he landed, sprawled
forward on Carson's little table.

There was a tinkling crash as the de-electronizers short-circuited.
A hiss of neutronic flame which in that second with its half-million
ultra-pressure oscillating volts, electrocuted the luckless villain who
was sprawled there.

I was down on the floor, crawling in the chaos. Amazing, electronic
turmoil. The shock of it swiftly spread around the little vessel;
made the senses of everyone on board momentarily reel. I was aware
of thin slivers of neutronic fire darting upward from the cooking
flesh of the sprawling man's body. Neutronic fire that all in that
second of deranged current darted throughout the ship. A split second
of flash; but in that second the darting tiny slivers of light-fire
everywhere were drinking up the weird green glow. The muffled ghastly,
toneless sounds of the ship's interior were brought to life. Down on
the forepeak Jerome gasped a startled curse. One of his men fell with
reeling senses.

And light was here. Normal celestial light, streaming down through our
transparent dome where the blazing firmament of stars was now clearly
to be seen. We had lost our invisibility! Gone. Irrevocably gone. At
least this combat would be upon an equality! Rollins at last had his
equal chance with the Phantom raider!

Patrolship-3 was clearly apparent now through our forward dome. I saw
Rollins swing his bow toward us. There was a tiny violet flash from his
forepeak. The first shot!

It came like a great violet lightning bolt hurtling at us!

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a puff of electronic light up at our dome-peak. A shower of
red-yellow sparks. I held my breath as Rollins' little circle of violet
beam struck us full, and clung. A second. Ten seconds, while the shower
of sparks sprayed like a little fountain of light-points. Would the
outer shell of our dome crack?

It seemed to hold. Ten seconds, and then Rollins' ray snapped off and
vanished. A test shot. I knew it was not a weakness of his electronic
power. A great, long-range space-gun with a single snap-bolt ordinarily
can do little damage. It is the duration of seconds over which the bolt
can cling, eating its way with generated interference-heat, fusing and
breaking its opposing armored substance.

And this was Rollins' first tentative test. Verifying his range, and
our ship's resistance. A conservation of his electronic power. In
space-gun battle, the available reserve of battery strength is vital.
A long-range gun, with ten seconds of sustained voltage, drains any
battery-series faster than the whirling electro-dynamos can build them
up. Then there must be an interval of replenishment.

My heart pounded with exultation as the thoughts swept me. Rollins had
been grimly desperate, undoubtedly, against an invisible enemy. But his
adversary was visible now. An equality of battle; and so Rollins would
use his wits, his skill of judgment. This damned murderous Jerome would
have all he could do to match tactics with the skilful commander of
Patrolship-3!

In those chaotic seconds I was still on the floor near the door of the
control room. Inside it the dead, roasted body of my guard lay sprawled
face down upon the wreckage of the invisibility-controls. The current
there was shut off now. The slivers of light-fire were gone. Down on
our forepeak Jerome and his gunners were recovering. Jerome was gazing
up, wildly cursing.

I staggered to the little turret-balcony, where Brenda and her father,
white-faced, were clinging to its rail.

"That damned fool!" I shouted. "In there--in the turret. He stumbled
and fell on the control table."

Would it serve as an excuse? Would the raging Jerome stab at me now
with a heat-bolt? Or would he believe me? I felt sure that no one
actually had seen what had happened.

"You damned--why--why--" Jerome for that instant glared up at me, his
hand instinctively reaching for his belt. But in all the chaos, turning
his wrath upon me must have struck him as futile. And it was stricken
from his mind by the confusion around him. Acrid choking fumes were
swirling through our little vessel, fumes from the deranged current of
the de-electronizers. One of Jerome's men dashed up to him.

"A fire on our stern-deck. I put it out."

"Go back to your post." Jerome shoved him away impatiently; turned,
came up and went into his turret, and seated himself at his gravity
controls.

Through the dome-peak I could see Rollins' ship, going in the opposite
direction from us, hurtling past us. Two hundred miles off. In a moment
it had passed and was out of range. Then it was turning, mounting in a
great arc and hurtling back at us!

       *       *       *       *       *

Jerome stabbed first. A hit! The violet sword dimly glowing, luminous
as it ignited the motes of intervening star-dust, leaped across the
narrowing angle and struck with a puff of glare. Jerome held it,
clinging. Five seconds. Ten. Fifteen. I could hear the throb and whir
of our dynamos as they struggled with the load. The big dial levers
on Jerome's desk quivered, slowly turned backward toward zero as our
batteries drained.

For those seconds Rollins took it with no answering shot. Would his
forepeak dome hold? I could see the tiny puff of fountain-light there
where the violet beam was boring. And then Rollins answered! From his
stern-peak this time diagonally away from us, his beam shot out. Not
directly at us, but at our bolt-stream. Two great violet rapiers in
space, sliding one upon the other. Midway between the vessels they
clashed. The interference cut our beam from Rollins' vessel. Out there
in space for breathless seconds both the beams held firm. Amazing sight
of pyrotechnic beauty, that area where the beams clashed.

Another ten seconds, each of them an eternity. The giant circle of the
interference area slowly was backing toward Rollins' ship! Our beam,
at reckless full-power now, was pushing it back. Only twenty or thirty
miles now from its target.

A buzzer sounded at Jerome's elbow. He reached for his audiphone. The
panic-stricken voice of our controlman in the ship's hull sounded:

"Chief! Dynamo bearing running hot! An' we're almost at zero in the
main battery."

Jerome disconnected with a grim curse. Another few seconds. The
narrowing angle of the hurtling ships had brought them within a hundred
miles of each other. And then suddenly, again it was Rollins who was
the more cautious. From the tail of his vessel a stream of burning gas
suddenly was issuing. A widening fluorescent comet-tail streaming out
behind him. And then he was turning, heading away from us! In retreat!
The interference area of the two clashing sword-beams broke. The great
prismatic spark shower died. Our bolt, plunging through, for a second
may have struck the turning, retreating Rollins. No one here could say.
Rollins' bolt had snapped off. The image of his ship merged with the
gas cloud. Vanished behind its masking cloak.

Jerome snapped off our beam. His face was triumphant; his enemy
fleeing, trying to mask his retreat with a cloud of burning gas.

"By Heaven, I've got him!" Jerome was muttering. "Damn' fool, trying to
fight the Phantom."

The starfield swung as we turned, headed at the gas-cloud where it hung
in a vast luminous fog of prismatic color as though a comet had burst
there. Triumphant pursuit of our enemy. But I held my breath.

I found Brenda beside me. Her hand, cold dank, gripped mine. Our eyes
met. There was nothing to say. Surely we both knew what little chance
we had of coming out of this alive.

The luminous gas-cloud swarmed to the sides as our ship plunged
headlong into it. And then we were through it.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no warning as Rollins' bolt struck us! He had not tried to
escape but was poised here in ambush, bow toward us, no more than fifty
miles away, off to one side by skilled calculation so that there was
only his narrow bow as our target and we were almost broadside to him!

The bolt struck us midway of the hull in a shower of sparks that
mounted up and clouded our instruments. Clinging, full-power beam.
Rollins at last striking for the kill! Wildly our guns tried to
intercept it. One of our forepeak guns went out of commission with
a back-firing burst which shattered it and killed the man at its
controls. The fumes of the explosion came wafting up, acrid, choking.

There was a sudden panic of confusion here, but Jerome leaped to his
feet with his roaring voice steadying his men. Then two of our guns,
stem and bow, stabbed beams that struck the patrolship's bow and clung.
But still that blast at our hull persisted. Eating, fusing the metallic
hull-plate.

Weird, transfixed drama as the seconds passed. I knew that Rollins now
would never yield. This bolt would cling to the limit of his batteries.

The audiphone beside Jerome was screaming with the hull-controlman's
panic-stricken voice: "Chief--hull plate is bending--bulging--"

Then I saw, through the shower of sparks outside, that Rollins' ship
was edging even closer. One of our two bolts had wavered and broken,
with exhausted battery. The other, weakened by all Jerome's reckless
firing, was futilely clinging to its target with a shower of sparks
paling now by diminished voltage.

And then from the patrolship, little blobs were popping out. Catapulted
bombs, hurtling at us with this close, twenty-mile range. Some exploded
in mid-space fired by the free electrons which hung heavy here around
us. And then one struck us, exploded with a dull concussion against our
stern. And then another, and another.

"Jim--Jim dear--goodbye."

Brenda's murmured words brought me suddenly to myself. Only sixty
seconds had passed since we burst out of the gas-cloud and Rollins had
jumped to finish us. Sixty seconds, but it had brought chaos here on
the Phantom ship. My chance! Old Professor Carson beside us was in a
daze; white-faced, numbly staring.

"The exit-porte," I muttered. "Brenda, make your father hurry."

Fumes of green-yellow chlorine mingled with oil-smoke, were surging
around us as we staggered up the little catwalk from the balcony to the
dome-top. Jerome may have seen us. His voice was shouting desperate
orders, and curses, but whether at us or not I never knew. A gunner
down on the deck fired at us with a hand-ray, but it missed.

"Brenda, hurry! Get your father into a space-suit."

She and I still were garbed in the space-suits from the _Seven
Stars_. In the tiny exit-porte, one of Jerome's crew, himself trying
to escape, lunged at me, but I felled him with a blow of my fist
into his face. The closing slide-door of the tiny pressure chamber
shut away the chaos. Then our suits were inflated; our helmets fixed
and we catapulted into the glare of outside space. I flung on my
rocket-stream; clung to Brenda and her father. My metal-tipped fingers
on the metallic plate of her shoulder made audiphone contact.

"Hold tight, Brenda."

"Yes, Jim."

"I'll tow us."

Horrible, chaotic seconds as the showering electronic sparks from the
doomed phantom flyer enveloped us. Indescribable glaring confusion of
deranged electricity and fusing, bubbling, flying metal-fragments.
Prismatic light that blinded.

We came through it in a moment, out into the starlight with the
glaring, staggering vessel, receding behind and above us as my
rocket-stream and gravity-plates drew us out of the line of fire.
The patrolship was hardly ten miles away now. I signalled with a
helmet-flare. Interplanetary Code signal. Rollins saw it; recognized
it; answered it!

We hurtled forward. Behind us, well overhead now, Jerome's harried,
wavering ship suddenly cracked. With a great burst of interior pressure
the dome, to which Rollins' main beam had shifted, abruptly exploded
outward. Ghastly, silent explosion. It spewed wreckage. Little hurtling
dots of shattered glassite and metal and mangled humans--blobs that
spewed out, were caught by the vessel's attraction, finding their
orbits so that they circled, gruesome satellites of their convulsed
world.

Then the last of Rollins' blasting beams snapped off. Back there the
broken ship hung leprous, with fused, still bubbling dome. Like a bent
finger of colored light for a moment more it glowed. And then it went
dark.

Dead X-flyer among the stars. The end of the dreaded Phantom of the
Starways.





End of Project Gutenberg's Phantom of the Seven Stars, by Ray Cummings

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PHANTOM OF THE SEVEN STARS ***

***** This file should be named 61855.txt or 61855.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/8/5/61855/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
