The Project Gutenberg EBook of Satellite of Fear, by Frederic Arnold Kummer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Satellite of Fear

Author: Frederic Arnold Kummer

Release Date: April 19, 2020 [EBook #61869]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SATELLITE OF FEAR ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           SATELLITE OF FEAR

                        By FRED A. KUMMER, Jr.

              Inside the crippled _Comet_, a hard-bitten
                crew watched the life-giving oxygen run
               low. Outside, on Ceres' fabled Darkside,
                stalked death in awful, spectral form.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The _Comet's_ control-room was silent except for the monotonous beat
of Ken Grant's restless pacing. Six months on Ceres' frigid, shadowy
Darkside had driven the tan from his face, etched lines of worry about
his mouth. Darkside had a way of doing that to people. A temperature
of five above absolute zero, the grim, eternal darkness, the insane
landscape, combined to give an impression of unreality that made one
feel he was living some terrible nightmare.

From time to time Grant glanced at the sidereal chronometer, shook his
head. Sixteen hours! Sixteen hours since Kennerly had left ... and the
heating unit of his space-suit had been good for three! Kennerly had
vanished, just as Allers had vanished before him! Two men had left the
disabled ship to try and reach Bowman's Crater, that last tiny outpost
only twenty miles away, and both men had disappeared. Had either Allers
or Kennerly been successful, a rescue ship from Bowman's Crater must
have come by now. But instead, the two spacemen had been swallowed up
by the gloom, vanished, leaving no trace. The bitter silent darkness
outside was like some yawning limitless void into which men went, and
did not return. Their position was bad enough in any case, but with a
woman in command....

Grant shot a glance at the stack of big lead chests in a corner of the
cabin. Pitchblend--radium ore with an amazingly high metal content. The
ore in those big chests, when refined, would yield over a million in
the rare element. Not that a million would do them much good if they
couldn't get it away. With the main fuel intake valve cracked, the
motors, the radio, the air-regenerator, were all shut off. Death from
lack of oxygen faced them unless word got through.

A click of the cabin's door broke Grant's thoughts. He turned; a
slender girl wearing riding breeches and leather jacket appeared in the
doorway. Pale, with deep smoke-gray eyes and auburn hair, she had a
fragile transcendental beauty that was very appealing, but her chin was
firm, determined.

"Any news, Mr. Grant?" she asked quietly, stepping into the control
room.

"None." He shook a gloomy head. "I don't like it! There's something
strange going on, Miss Conway! The trail's perfectly clear, there's no
life on Ceres that we know of. One man might conceivably meet with some
sort of accident, but not two! They tell stories about Darkside; queer
stories! About alien, unknown creatures."

"I ... I know," the girl said tightly. "Dad used to hear those stories,
too, when he and Allers were prospecting here. When Dad died he
left me enough money to charter this ship, told me to come here to
Ceres for my legacy. Gave me the chart showing where this pocket of
pitchblend was located." She glanced at the lead chests. "Now Allers,
Dad's closest friend, is gone. And Kennerly. And we're trapped, made
virtual prisoners in this ship by something unknown--out there. We've
got to get word through, Mr. Grant! It's death to stay here until our
oxygen is gone. Death, maybe worse, waiting for us out there in the
darkness...." She broke off, suddenly, swaying.

"Steady!" Grant gripped the girl's shoulder. "It's the bad air! I'll
go tell Harris to crack open one of the emergency oxygen flasks. You'd
better lie down."

Like a flash the girl's red head snapped up. "You're a romanticist,
Mr. Grant," she said. "You seem to think I ought to be a languishing
heroine. Well, I'm not. I'm in command of this expedition and if
there're any risks to be taken, I'm taking them! Have Harris open an
oxygen flask and then check over my space-suit! As soon as I get my
breath, I'm going out and look for Allers and Kennerly!" She waved
aside Grant's remonstrances. "Orders, Mr. Grant!"

Face stony, Grant left the control room, strode along the companionway
to the fo'castle. The _Comet's_ crew, perhaps half a dozen men all
told, were stretched upon their bunks, faces drawn as they fought
against the stale air. Grant motioned to Harris, the squat, ugly mate.

"Air's getting thick," he said. "Better crack an emergency tube."

"Aye, aye, sir!" Harris lifted a steel plate in the floor, swung down
the iron ladder. Some moments later he emerged from the storehold,
carrying an oxygen flask.

"Funny!" The mate rubbed his stubbly chin. "I coulda swore we had
twenty emergency flasks below. But there's only five more down there."

"Five!" Grant's eyes narrowed. "There were twenty when we left earth! I
counted 'em!"

"That's not all," Harris muttered. "There's other stores missing!
Wire, tools, batteries, spare plates for repairing the hull!" His eyes
flicked toward the darkness beyond the portholes. "There were plenty
of times we were all down at the mine working when whatever it was
that got Allers and Kennerly might have entered the ship, taken those
things. I've seen shadows out there sometimes. Shadows that weren't
just right, sliding among the rocks. And ... and it's bad luck to have
a woman aboard ship."

A silence fell over the cabin. Grant frowned. Five flasks of oxygen ...
and the air-regenerator useless without power! Nothing could save them
unless word got through to Bowman's Crater, on the edge of the Cerean
Darkside. Two men had tried to get through, and those two men had
vanished. To permit Joan Conway to attempt the trip was unthinkable.
Grant reached for one of the bulky space-suits that hung on the wall.

"All right, men," he grated. "We're going to get to the bottom of this!
Here's the plan! I'll take the trail to Bowman's Crater; the same trail
Allers and Kennerly took! If there's anything lying in wait out there,
it ought to attack me, and I'll be armed! At the same time I want you,
Harris, and you, Miller, to go out also, to climb the other side of the
crater and circle about, picking up the trail to Bowman's a mile or so
from here. I'll draw _It's_ attention, while you try to get through and
take word to the outpost. Got it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The three men nodded, climbed into the heavily insulated space-suits.
Electric heating wires ran through the lining, from portable batteries
good for several hours, enabling the men within them to maintain
comfortable warmth even though the soles of their thick lead gravity
shoes, in contact with the icy ground, were within a few degrees of
absolute zero. Gloves of heavy lead, a part of every radium miner's
equipment as protection against the highly concentrated ore he was
forced to handle, covered the asbestoid "hands" of the space-suits.
Grant paused before snapping his transparent plastic helmet into place,
turned to the men who were to remain aboard the _Comet_.

"Miss Conway's feeling a little ragged because of the air," he said,
unsmilingly. "When she's better, tell her where we've gone."

The men grinned understandingly. They knew that the girl, in spite of
her frail form, felt that command of the expedition required her to
share in all its dangers. And Grant, like most men who had spent their
lives on far-flung frontiers, seeking adventure in the woman-less
outposts of terrestial civilization, had curiously archaic ideas of
chivalry, to say nothing of deep-rooted convictions that a woman's
place was on earth. Disregarding the grins of the men, he closed his
helmet, opened the valve of his oxygen tank.

"Ready?" he barked into the mouthpiece of his radio communications set.

Two space-suited figures nodded grimly behind their helmets, followed
Grant through the airlock. In the clean, airless void the stars shone
like white beacons, shedding a thin eerie light over the barren plain.
A dark inferno worthy of a Dore's brush, it seemed, malevolent,
intangibly evil. Tortured pinnacles of rock, jagged spires stabbing at
the sable sky; deep craters, dug by countless meteors, pock-marking
the bleak terrain; yawning crevasses, towering cliffs, jagged,
sharp-angled blocks of stone, for Darkside had neither sun, air, nor
rain to round them, soften their weird outlines.

Grant loosened his heat-gun in its holster, glanced about. Up the side
of the big crater, in which the mine-shaft and the space-ship lay, was
a poorly defined trail, winding in and out among the towering rocks.
This was the way to Bowman's, the little mining town situated in the
twilight zone between Ceres' bitter Darkside and its blazing Sunside.
Allers and Kennerly had taken that rude trail. Grant waved Harris and
Miller to the right.

"You'll make a long half-circle," he announced. "It'll be tough going,
but with my following the trail, I should draw any attack and enable
you to pick up the trail further along, and reach Bowman's. Okay, now.
Let's go!"

Harris and Miller disappeared among the up-thrust monoliths, Grant
swung along the trail. In spite of his heavy space-suit and his
thick lead-soled gravity shoes, he was able to move at a brisk pace,
hand on his gun, eyes probing the gloom to right and left. Onward he
went, steadily, skirting craters, leaping narrow crevasses, squeezing
through rocky defiles whose overhanging ledges often met to form a dark
passageway. For all the heating wires within his suit, he could feel
the cold; the utter silence was maddening.

Grant stared at the murky shadows with narrowed eyes. What was it that
had spirited away Allers and Kennerly, two brave men, well armed? Some
unknown force of nature, or something more tangible? Superstitious
spacemen whispered of monstrous reptilian beasts, of space-pirates'
hide-outs, of strange, spectral Shapes. Drink-inspired hallucinations,
Grant had said scornfully. Now he was not so sure. So little was known
of Darkside.

Suddenly Grant froze in his tracks. In the middle of the path, perhaps
a hundred feet ahead, was a strange, grotesque figure. Swathed in
a bulky space-suit, it crouched ape-like on the ground, feet flat
against the rock, hands touching the trail as though to balance itself.
Motionless as some robot it crouched there, in a patch of white frost,
seemingly poised to spring.

Grant's heat-gun rose to cover the strange figure. His voice shook as
he spoke into his communications set.

"Who's there? What'd you want?"

The crouching figure made no reply. Very deliberately Grant pressed the
trigger of the heat-gun, aiming it at the motionless form's feet. Dirt,
chips of stone, flew up, but the crouching form did not move. Muscles
tense, Grant moved forward. Pale starlight winked on the unknown's
helmet. All at once Grant gasped. Behind the transparent glass of the
headpiece, the man's features were visible. Distorted, despairing
features set in an expression of ghastly, appalling horror!
Kennerly ... dead!

Grant bent over the grim figure, tried to lift it. One of Kennerly's
fingers, frozen solid, snapped within the space-suit like brittle
glass. Grant glanced warily about. If he could get the body back to
the ship, find out how Kennerly had died, there might be a chance of
overcoming the menace that lurked on this shadowy insane world. All
at once his eyes caught queer dark streaks on a rock not far from the
inert figure ... letters, words, that looked as if they had been made
by a heat-gun's blast. Slowly he deciphered the scrawled sentences.
"Allers dead. No hope. Unknown forces. Doomed."

Grant's jaw tightened. Kennerly's last message! And somehow he had
known that Allers was dead, that there was no hope. Face set in harsh
lines, Grant swung the body over his shoulder, set out along the trail
to the _Comet_.

       *       *       *       *       *

The silence in the space-ship's control-room was thick, breathless. A
frail figure against the rivet-studded bulkhead, Joan Conway stared
with horror-filled eyes at the grim figure on the floor. They had
removed Kennerly's space-suit, and with the warmth of the cabin the
stump of the frozen finger which Grant had inadvertently broken off was
beginning to seep blood. The girl forced her voice to remain steady.

"Under the circumstances, Mr. Grant," she said tightly, "I have decided
to overlook your disobedience of orders until we return to earth ... if
we do. Are there any clues on Kennerly?"

Grant, kneeling beside the dead man, examining him carefully, shook
his head.

"Nothing," he muttered. "No holes in his suit, no signs of anything
that might have killed him other than the cold. The battery of his
heating unit's run down. And he had a full charge when he left. We
checked it. Why he should follow the trail a mile or so from the ship
and then sit there for hours, until the failing battery brought death
by freezing.... It's suicide!"

"Maybe he got lost, wandered around until he died," one of the
space-hands suggested.

"No good." Again Grant shook a somber head. "The trail's perfectly
clear. I found him in a deep patch of hoar frost, like snow. Condensed
moisture from the escape valve of his helmet. An extraordinarily large
patch of 'snow.' Get what that means? Frost patches in this airless
void can only mean the moisture from a space-suit's exhaust. And a pile
of 'snow' like that about him, could only be the result of remaining
hours in one spot. Kennerly left this ship for Bowman's Crater, got
about two miles away and then crouched down to wait for death. Crouched
there for hours, until his heating unit ran out of juice and he froze.
Why?" Grant motioned to the inert form' with its terrified countenance.
"He had sustained no injury, could have followed a perfectly clear path
back to the ship, and instead he crouched there until he died!"

"Maybe something held him," Joan suggested. "Magnetism."

Grant picked up the asbestoid space-suit. "Fiber, glassex helmet,
rust-proof copper fittings, lead gravity shoes. No iron or steel on
it. Another thing. How did he know Allers was dead? What did he mean
by 'unknown forces' and 'no hope?' There's something devilish, unreal,
out there. Something that's determined to keep us from getting word
through, determined to keep us here until we die from lack of oxygen!
Just like Kennerly died from lack of heat. It's afraid to attack us,
but tries to trap us, until we die."

Again silence fell over the cabin. The remaining space-hands glanced
from Kennerly's body to the windows, the clinging darkness outside.
Joan's gaze sought the leaden chests; she laughed unhumorously.

"Pitchblend! A million in radium! And what good is it? All our work
here to get it and now no chance of ever reaching earth."

"We'll get word through somehow." Grant squared his shoulders. "Maybe
Harris and Miller...."

As Grant spoke, a furious tocsin of blows sounded upon the main
airlock. The spacemen whirled, groping for guns. Face set, Grant
stepped toward the inner door of the lock.

"Keep me covered," he snapped, drawing the massive pneumatic bolts.

As the heavy steel door swung open, Joan gave a sudden gasp. Standing
in the air-chamber was a stocky, space-suited figure, face paper-white.
Harris, looking as though he were pursued by a legion of devils!

"Good Lord!" Grant exclaimed. "What's wrong? Where's Miller?"

Harris pushed back his helmet, slumped onto a bench; drops of sweat
beaded his face, his eyes were tortured.

"It ... it's screwy!" he muttered. "It ain't human! Miller standing
there, jumping up and down."

Grant took a bottle of fiery Martian _long_ from the table, poured out
a tumblerful.

"Drink this," he said. "And tell us what happened."

Harris downed the drink with a shudder.

"We made the detour like you said," he whispered. "Fighting our way
over rocks, around craters. Tough going. About three miles from here
our half-circle brought us back to the trail. All okay. Miller was
ahead of me by maybe a hundred yards. We kept our guns in our hands,
and a sharp lookout. Then ... then ... all of a sudden I heard Miller
yelling in my earphones. He was hopping up and down ... straight up
and down, half-crazy with fright.... Just as I was running toward him,
he told me to stay back, that he was trapped. Trapped!" Harris choked.
"He could hop up and down all right, but _he couldn't move in the
horizontal_! Nothing around him, nothing to be seen anywhere, but he
could only move one way! Up and down! It ain't human, I tell you! Ain't
natural! How...."

"Miller could move only in the vertical?" Joan echoed. "But ...
but ... no comprehensible force on earth...."

"This ain't earth, miss," Harris muttered. "And Miller's out there,
three miles up the trail, trapped...."

Grant reached for his space-suit. "Come on!" he exclaimed. "We're going
out! Harris, you'll stay here with Miss Conway...."

"No!" The girl shook her head, eyes like gray steel. "I'm in command of
this expedition ... and I'm going along! Danger or no danger! I got you
men into this mess, and I'm going to help you get out!"

"Sorry." Grant shook his head. "I admire your courage, but we're up
against something unknown, something dangerous. You'd be more of a
hindrance than a help. Call me old-fashioned, romantic, anything you
please, but you're staying here. Harris, I'll be responsible for any
charges of insubordination. See that she stays here. We're going to
rescue Miller."

Lips pale, head high, the girl watched them clamber into their
space-suits. Her pride, Grant realized, was cut deeply at having the
command of the expedition thus taken from her. But this was no time for
pride with Miller trapped by some mysterious force. Motioning to the
others to follow, Grant sprang into the airlock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving the ship, the six men raced at top speed along the trail.
Around crevasses and craters, past insanely sculptured rocks, through
narrow passes. When they reached the spot where Kennerly's body had
been found, Grant suddenly paused, staring. The patch of hoar-frost
had been scraped away, a small hole perhaps a foot deep was exposed.
Something previously buried in the ground had been removed! Grant shook
his head. A bizarre, fantastic idea was beginning to take form in his
mind. In a temperature close to absolute zero....

"Come on!" he exclaimed. "We've got to reach Miller! Hurry!"

The spacemen redoubled their efforts, bounding along the narrow path.
Onward, desperately, the sound of their heavy breathing filling their
helmets. At length they reached a low rise of ground commanding a view
of the trail ahead. Very faintly a despairing cry echoed in their
earphones.

A hundred or so yards before them, a vague form in the gloom, stood
Miller. His head twisted crazily from side to side, his body writhed
frantically, as if seeking to break some invisible grip. Several times
he leaped upward like some grotesque jumping-jack, only to settle down
in the exact same spot as before. It was as though the trapped man were
confined in an invisible cylinder which permitted him to move only in
the vertical plane!

"Look!" Grant muttered. "So it's true! That's what happened to Kennerly
until his heating unit gave out! And Allers, too, I suppose!" He raced
down the slope toward Miller, heat-gun in hand.

As they neared the trapped man, he gave a cry of warning. "Stay back!
You'll get caught!" His voice rose despairingly. "No ... no way to get
free! Hands and feet stuck! Better to shoot me, now, than let me stay
here till my heat-unit gives out!"

Helplessly they stared at the doomed man. To approach him meant they,
too, might be trapped. But to stand there, useless, while his heating
unit gave out, bringing death, as it had brought death to Kennerly! And
what power known to man would permit a living being to move only in the
vertical plane but not the horizontal? All at once Grant recalled the
hole in the trail at the spot where he had found Kennerly. Dropping
to his knees, he began very cautiously to circle Miller. All at once
he found it, a copper wire concealed beneath dirt, pebbles. One jerk
of his gloved fingers snapped the wire. A sudden cry broke from the
trapped man. Weakly, uncertainly, he stepped forward.

"Free!" Miller cried. "I ... I can move my feet and hands any way I
want, now! Thank God! The thought of staying there until I froze to
death...!" He shuddered.

Grant was following the wire to where Miller had stood, was digging
away a covering of earth. All at once he gave an exclamation of wonder.
In the wan starlight a tangle of wires, wrapped about iron cores, lay
exposed!

"Looks like a magnet!" A burly space-hand grunted, shaking a dazed
head. "But there's no iron on our suits! And no magnet permits you to
move only one way!"

"I don't know." Grant frowned. "But whatever this force is, it's got
a clever, devilish mind behind it! This is the same kind of thing
that trapped Kennerly, only we didn't reach him in time. When I first
spotted Kennerly crouching in the trail, I didn't know who he was.
Fired a warning shot at his feet. That must have fused the wires of
the apparatus! And so I was able to approach Kennerly's body without
being trapped myself! While I was taking his body back to the ship, the
killer must have dug up the wrecked mechanism, planted _this_ magnet
further down the trail! If Harris hadn't been lagging a considerable
distance behind Miller, they both would have been caught!"

"Sounds logical," one of the men nodded. "But why all these traps? And
who's setting them?"

Grant picked up the broken end of the wire.

"That," he said grimly, "is what we're going to find out. At the other
end of this wire is the source of power for these traps. And that's
where we'll find the person or being who's setting them! Let's go!"

The spacemen nodded, faces tense behind their helmets. Leaving the
trail, they struck out across the rough terrain, following the thin
thread of wire. The scenery grew wilder and wilder as they progressed,
until they seemed spectres in some gehenna of weird, jagged rocks,
grasping shadows. Suddenly Grant, in the lead, drew a sharp breath.

Ahead, the copper wire passed between two basalt walls, less than four
feet wide. And at the other end of this passage was a portable _radite_
lamp, its bluish beams revealing a small motor, a row of tall oxygen
flasks, wires, metal plates, the missing equipment from the _Comet's_
storehold. And bent over the motors was a powerful space-suited figure!

"Quick!" Grant roared. "We've got him!" Fingers fumbling for his
heat-gun, he sprang forward.

       *       *       *       *       *

Grant's leap, in the light gravity, carried him clear of the ground,
and at that precise instant the dark figure before him threw a switch.
A sudden shock hit Grant; he felt as if his hands and feet had been
lashed by invisible bonds. He glanced down, gasped. He was standing on
empty air, some two feet above the rocky floor of the corridor!

Behind him, the rest of the spacemen were frozen into position,
writhing and twisting in vain efforts to free themselves! Grant
struggled to draw his gun from its holster, but his hands, while free
to move sideways, could not be raised or lowered a fraction of an inch.
As Kennerly and Miller had been trapped in the vertical, so they were
caught in the horizontal!

"Good evening, gentlemen!" The voice in their earphones was mocking.
"I've been expecting you! I hoped that the wire would lead you
here, into my little snare!" The space-suited figure glanced at the
struggling men. "All present except Harris and the girl! And they'll
open the airlock to admit an old friend miraculously returned from the
dead!"

Grant, catching a glimpse of the face behind the unknown's helmet, gave
a quick gasp.

"Allers!" he cried. "Then ... then Kennerly's message was a lie."

"I wrote it myself." A grin spread over Allers' coarse red countenance.
"Just to keep suspicion from me. You see, Grant, I was with old Conway
when he stumbled on the pitchblend pocket, and I knew the fortune it
contained. But when Conway died, I didn't have enough money to finance
an expedition here. So as soon as I heard his daughter was going to
outfit a ship on his life insurance, I joined up." He laughed harshly.
"You've been such fools! Night after night, during these six months,
I've been bringing necessary equipment from the ship to this hide-out.
Oxygen, food, metal, this little auxiliary motor, and fuel to run it.
When you had done all the work of cleaning out the pocket, I cracked
the main intake valve, volunteered to get word through to Bowman's
Crater. And while you were waiting, I set my traps along the trail."

Allers nodded complacently, drew a small, complicated piece of
machinery from his pocket.

"Here's the spare intake valve," he said. "Harris and the girl will
be overjoyed to see dear old Allers return. They won't be suspecting
anything and should be easy." He patted the heat gun at his side. "The
ship and the million in radium ore will be mine with no trouble at
all. And there're places on Venus or Mars where no questions are asked,
so long as you've the money to spend."

"But what's holding us here?" Grant exclaimed.

Allers smiled thinly. "Think it over," he suggested. "You'll have three
hours before your heating units give out, as Kennerly's did. And even
if you do find out the cause, you won't be able to do anything about
it." He strode easily past the helpless figures, unaffected by the
mysterious force. "Good-bye, gentlemen! Enjoy yourselves!" A moment
later he had disappeared in the gloom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Left to themselves, the trapped men renewed their struggles, but to no
avail. Grant felt as though his feet and hands were caught between two
boards, able to slide sideways but neither forward and backward, nor up
and down. He glanced over his shoulder. The others were in ridiculous
positions, like some bizarre Laocoon group. Some, like him, had leaped
clear of the floor when caught. Others had one foot or one hand raised,
were unable to lower them; some, with their guns half-drawn, could not
continue to pull the weapons from their holsters or shove them back.
Miller, hands and feet arrested in a flying tackle, groaned.

"This is worse than before," he muttered. "I could at least jump up and
down the other way. Now, without being able to lift our feet, we're
rooted to one spot. And my heating unit's two hours gone already."

Grant stared at the frantic man. Like some queer piece of action
sculpture they seemed, arms and legs raised. And back aboard the
_Comet_ Joan and Harris would surely admit Allers. Once inside, he
could cover them with his gun, replace the broken valve, and take off
for Venus.

"We'll have to go at this logically," he said. "We just saw Allers walk
past us without being affected. Anybody notice anything unusual about
him?"

There was a moment's silence, then one of the space-hands spoke up.

"He didn't have on gravity shoes or radium-insulation gloves, if that
means anything."

"They're both lead," Grant muttered. "And ... by all space! I think
I've got it! Look! The temperature here is only a couple of degrees
above absolute zero. And though the inside of our suits are warmed,
insulated, the soles of our shoes, the outside of our thick lead
gloves, must be near that temperature! Lead, at six above absolute
zero, takes on super-conductivity. No resistance to electricity! Weak
currents become immensely powerful!"

"Super-conductivity?" Miller repeated. "But what in hell's that got to
do with our being caught here? We've got to get free, and damn soon,
before our heating units give out!"

"Look," Grant snapped. "He's got magnets set in the walls of this
gorge! And when the lead on our hands and feet, in a state of
super-conductivity, cuts the fields of the magnets, a powerful
current's set up in 'em! Set up in such a direction as to oppose the
motion! Like the armature of a shorted dynamo! Get it? We can move only
in the direction of the lines of force! Sideways! Just like the magnet
that caught you, buried beneath your feet, kept you in the vertical
plane! Super-conductivity, and magnets! That's what's got us!"

"Knowing what it is doesn't help," Miller grated. "We can't get our
heat-guns free, and even if we could, we wouldn't dare turn them on our
hands and feet! Looks like we're here to stay until our heating units
wear down and we freeze! We're finished, Grant! Finished!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Grant swore. His hands and feet, inside the space-suit, were warm,
but the outer lead gloves that were a part of every radium miner's
equipment, and the thick lead soles of their gravity shoes, were at
approximately six above absolute zero. A degree, or even half a degree,
of warmth, and super-conductivity would cease. They would be free!
Their lives, and Joan Conway's fate, depended upon those few precious
degrees. Desperately Grant tried to pull his heat-gun from its holster,
but to no avail. And the leaden gloves, the gravity shoes, were
securely fastened to his space-suit. No chance of removing them without
cutting wires or filing bolts.

Grant moved his hands experimentally. They slid sideways, following the
lines of magnetic force that crossed the passage, though at different
levels; one on a level with the butt of his gun, the other higher and
extended in front of his body. Backward and forward motion was also
impossible, since that, too, would be contrary to the lines of force.
Suddenly Grant stiffened. Arrested motion....

Extending his arm as far as possible without raising it, he crashed
his hand against the holstered heat gun that hung at his waist. Again
and again the lead-sheathed fist struck the heavy holster in a rain of
blows. Miller, watching wide-eyed, shook his head.

"What is it?" he muttered. "You ... you're nuts! If that gun should go
off, it'd rip open your suit, kill you!"

"Better than freezing, anyhow," Grant panted. "And if this works...."
He redoubled his blows, crashing hand against gun-butt. "Arrested
motion gives heat. Like pounding a hammer against an anvil. Only need a
degree or so at most. I ... Ah!" He twisted his hand about, found that
he could move it freely.

Quickly, before the heat radiated off, Grant drew his heat-gun, focused
it on the floor of the defile. Under the lambent blue bolt, the rock
began to glow red, waves of heat radiated upward. All at once Grant
found himself falling, and his feet struck the glowing rock. The
lead soles of his shoes melting like butter on the white-hot rock,
he stumbled toward Miller, turned the heat blast on a spot near the
latter's feet. Within a few moments the heat had restored resistance to
the lead and Miller was free.

"Release the others!" Grant shouted. "And then make tracks to the
_Comet_! I'm going on ahead! Hurry! We've got to reach the ship before
Allers takes off for Venus!" Plunging into the shadowy gloom, he headed
toward the trail.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ken Grant had little memory of that wild race across the Cerean
Darkside. The thin starlight ... the insane landscape ... the sprawling
shadows ... all these made a jumbled montage in his mind. Vaguely he
remembered racing onward, onward, muscles aching, until he saw red
flashes of light ahead. The _Comet's_ rockets, warming up preparatory
to taking off!

Desperately Grant lunged down the slope toward the ship. Now it was
before him, a sleek, slender shape, glowing in the crimson flare of the
rockets. Grant gripped the handle of the airlock, sunk flush in the
hull, and tugged. The outer door swung open. Closing it behind him,
he threw open the inner one and burst into the cabin, gun in hand.
Before him stood Joan, very pale, chin high. Harris lay upon the floor,
blood seeping from a gash on his temple. All this Grant took in with
one swift glance, but before he could move he felt the muzzle of a gun
dig into his back. Allers, standing to one side of the airlock as he
entered, held him covered.

"Drop your gun!" Allers shouted to make himself heard through Grant's
helmet.

Helpless, Grant obeyed, then threw back the transparent plastic dome
that covered his head.

"Over there against the wall! Next to the girl!" Allers ordered. "I
don't know how you got free, but I'm not staying to investigate!
We're leaving for Venus!" He moved toward the controls, bent over
them, keeping Grant and Joan covered with his heat gun. Grant laughed
harshly. A nice mess he'd made of things!

One of Allers' hands was on the main control, the other gripped the
heat gun. An idea began to take form in Grant's mind. The cold, the
bitter cold just above absolute zero, was what Allers had counted on to
trap them. Perhaps it might save them as well. He hadn't been in the
cabin long enough for the cold to wear off. Grant drew a deep breath.

"Shoot, damn you!" he roared, hurtling forward.

Face set in a vulpine grin, Allers pressed the trigger of the heat-gun.
Joan's horrified scream ripped through the cabin like a jagged knife
blade.

"Ken!" she cried. "Ken!"

The ray of the heat-gun was like a white hot lance, thrusting against
Grant's chest as he plunged toward Allers. In spite of the space-suit's
insulation it would normally have charred him to a crisp, but the suit,
bitterly cold from the fierce temperature of Darkside, sucked up the
heat like a sponge. Grant felt as though a glowing brand had touched
his chest, the pain was terrible, but the frigid cold of the suit
absorbed the full force of the heat blast long enough for him to reach
his opponent.

One blow of Grant's lead-gloved fist caught Allers' face, spun him
about. The heat-gun flew from his hand, slithered under the big control
board. Bruised, bloody, snarling in savage rage, Allers shook himself,
hurtled forward, fists flailing.

Grant, encased in the heavy space-suit, was clumsy, awkward. Allers
circled him like a tiger stalking its prey. Darting in, his fist would
crash into his opponent's face before Grant could raise his heavy arms
to guard. And by the time he was ready for a return blow, Allers was
dancing out of reach, a grinning, ugly phantom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doggedly, Grant pursued his elusive antagonist. His face was a battered
pulp from Allers' blows and the space-suit, the gravity shoes seemed to
weigh tons. Except for that first blow he had not reached his opponent
once, and Allers was laughing mockingly as he methodically cut Grant's
face to ribbons. The latter was beginning to stumble now, had to force
his limbs to move. If only he could corner Allers! Smash his fist into
that evil, taunting countenance.

Knotted knuckles crashed flush against Grant's jaw, before he could
raise his clumsy arm to block the blow. Backward he tottered against
the wall, groggy, and through half-closed eyes saw Allers spring
forward for the kill. But as Allers leaped toward him, another figure
ran across the cabin, seized his arm. Joan! Clinging with all her
weight to the space-rat, holding him back.

"Now, Ken!" she cried. "Now!"

With a single motion of his squat, powerful frame Allers shook the girl
off, spun her across the cabin against the iron bulkhead, but in that
moment Grant had reached him. His lead-encased hands shot out, gripped
Allers' throat. The cold of the leaden gloves burned the man's neck
like a brand and he screamed in agony. Tighter and tighter Grant's
hands locked about his throat, heedless of the blows Allers rained upon
him, and the agonized scream turned into a gurgling moan.

"Think of Kennerly!" Grant growled. "Dying out there in the cold! Think
of him, you rat!"

Then a million stars danced before Grant's eyes, and he slumped
back, half-conscious. Through wavering mists he saw Allers stagger
to his feet, gripping a heavy wrench. The space-rat's groping hands
had encountered it, brought the weapon down upon his opponent's head
with brutal force. It was all like a dream, now, to Grant. Stunned,
helpless, he saw Allers moving toward him, face set in a furious grin,
the heavy wrench raised for a final terrible blow.

Instinctively Grant twisted sideways, his fingers fumbled with the
emergency outlet of his space-suit's oxygen tank. On his shoulders it
had escaped the heat-ray's blast and Grant knew it was still full of
semi-liquid oxygen, under heavy pressure.

Allers' muscles were tensing, the heavy wrench was about to descend in
a crushing, deadly stroke. It took all of Grant's failing strength to
twist the outlet of the air valve.

The cloud of whitish vapor spurted from the space-suit's outlet in an
icy stream. For just an instant Allers stood motionless as the blast
of semi-liquid oxygen struck him. A howl of agony broke from his lips,
the wrench fell from his half-frozen fingers. Then, crimsoned features
strangely set, body rigid, Allers toppled to the floor.

"Ken!" Joan whispered. "Ken, you ... you're all right?"

"O ... okay!" His gaze lingered on her piquant features, with their
firm, level eyes, brave set of chin. "You know," he said slowly, "I
believe that crack on the head knocked me silly. So silly that for a
moment I actually believed you wouldn't mind if I ki...." He paused as
Miller and the rest of the crew pounded excitedly on the massive outer
door of the airlock.

"Let them wait," Joan Conway said peremptorily, "and finish what you
were saying!" Then, as he hesitated, "Orders, Mr. Grant!"

"Aye, aye, Commander," Grant grinned. "I was going to say I believed
you wouldn't mind if I kissed you. Like this!"





End of Project Gutenberg's Satellite of Fear, by Frederic Arnold Kummer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SATELLITE OF FEAR ***

***** This file should be named 61869.txt or 61869.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/8/6/61869/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
