The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Dragon-Queen of Jupiter, by Leigh Brackett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Dragon-Queen of Jupiter

Author: Leigh Brackett

Release Date: April 22, 2020 [EBook #61890]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DRAGON-QUEEN OF JUPITER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                      The Dragon-Queen of Jupiter

                           By LEIGH BRACKETT

               More feared than the deadly green snakes,
              the hideous red beetles of that outpost of
               Earth Empire, was the winged dragon-queen
               of Jupiter and her white Legions of Doom.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Tex stirred uneasily where he lay on the parapet, staring into the
heavy, Jupiterian fog. The greasy moisture ran down the fort wall,
lay rank on his lips. With a sigh for the hot, dry air of Texas, and
a curse for the adventure-thirst that made him leave it, he shifted
his short, steel-hard body and wrinkled his sandy-red brows in the
never-ending effort to see.

A stifled cough turned his head. He whispered. "Hi, Breska."

The Martian grinned and lay down beside him. His skin was wind-burned
like Tex's, his black eyes nested in wrinkles caused by squinting
against sun and blowing dust.

For a second they were silent, feeling the desert like a bond between
them. Then Breska, mastering his cough, grunted:

"They're an hour late now. What's the matter with 'em?"

Tex was worried, too. The regular dawn attack of the swamp-dwellers was
long overdue.

"Reckon they're thinking up some new tricks," he said. "I sure wish our
relief would get here. I could use a vacation."

Breska's teeth showed a cynical flash of white.

"If they don't come soon, it won't matter. At that, starving is
pleasanter than beetle-bombs, or green snakes. Hey, Tex. Here comes the
Skipper."

Captain John Smith--Smith was a common name in the Volunteer
Legion--crawled along the catwalk. There were new lines of strain on
the officer's gaunt face, and Tex's uneasiness grew.

He knew that supplies were running low. Repairs were urgently needed.
Wasn't the relief goin' to come at all?

But Captain Smith's pleasant English voice was as calm as though he
were discussing cricket-scores in a comfortable London club.

"Any sign of the beggars, Tex?"

"No, sir. But I got a feeling...."

"H'm. Yes. We all have. Well, keep a sharp...."

A scream cut him short. It came from below in the square compound. Tex
shivered, craning down through the rusty netting covering the well.

He'd heard screams like that before.

A man ran across the greasy stones, tearing at something on his wrist.
Other men ran to help him, the ragged remnant of the force that had
marched into new Fort Washington three months before, the first
garrison.

The tiny green snake on the man's wrist grew incredibly. By the time
the first men reached it, it had whipped a coil around its victim's
neck. Faster than the eye could follow, it shifted its fangs from
wrist to throat.

The man seemed suddenly to go mad. He drew his knife and slashed at his
comrades, screaming, keeping them at bay.

Then, abruptly, he collapsed. The green snake, now nearly ten feet
long, whipped free and darted toward a drainage tunnel. Shouting men
surrounded it, drawing rapid-fire pistols, but Captain Smith called out:

"Don't waste your ammunition, men!"

Startled faces looked up. And in that second of respite, the snake
coiled and butted its flat-nosed head against the grating.

In a shower of rust-flakes it fell outward, and the snake was gone like
a streak of green fire.

Tex heard Breska cursing in a low undertone. A sudden silence had
fallen on the compound. Men fingered the broken grating, white-faced as
they realized what it meant. There would be no metal for repairs until
the relief column came.

It was hard enough to bring bare necessities over the wild terrain. And
air travel was impracticable due to the miles-thick clouds and magnetic
vagaries. There would be no metal, no ammunition.

Tex swore. "Reckon I'll never get used to those varmints, Captain. The
rattlers back home was just kid's toys."

"Simple enough, really." Captain Smith spoke absently, his gray eyes
following the sag of the rusty netting below.

"The green snakes, like the planarians, decrease evenly in size with
starvation. They also have a vastly accelerated metabolism. When they
get food, which happens to be blood, they simply shoot out to their
normal size. An injected venom causes their victims to fight off help
until the snake has fed."

Breska snarled. "Cute trick the swamp men thought up, starving those
things and then slipping them in on us through the drain pipes. They're
so tiny you miss one, every once in a while."

"And then you get that." Tex nodded toward the corpse. "I wonder who
the war-chief is. I'd sure like to get a look at him."

"Yes," said Captain Smith. "So would I."

He turned to go, crawling below the parapet. You never knew what
might come out of the fog at you, if you showed a target. The body was
carried out to the incinerator as there was no ceremony about burials
in this heat. A blob of white caught Tex's eye as a face strained
upward, watching the officer through the rusty netting.

Tex grunted. "There's your countryman, Breska. I'd say he isn't so sold
on the idea of making Venus safe for colonists."

"Oh, lay off him, Tex." Breska was strangled briefly by a fit of
coughing. "He's just a kid, he's homesick, and he's got the wheezes,
like me. This lowland air isn't good for us. But just wait till we
knock sense into these white devils and settle the high plateaus."

If he finished, Tex didn't hear him. The red-haired Westerner was
staring stiffly upward, clawing for his gun.

       *       *       *       *       *

He hadn't heard or seen a thing. And now the fog was full of thundering
wings and shrill screams of triumph. Below the walls, where the
ground-mist hung in stagnant whorls, a host of half-seen bodies crowded
out of the wilderness into which no civilized man had ever gone.

The rapid-fire pistol bucked and snarled in Tex's hand. Captain Smith,
lying on his belly, called orders in his crisp, unhurried voice. C
Battery on the northeast corner cut in with a chattering roar, spraying
explosive bullets upward, followed by the other three whose duty it was
to keep the air clear.

Tex's heart thumped. Powder-smoke bit his nostrils. Breska began to
whistle through his teeth, a song that Tex had taught him, called, "The
Lone Prairee."

The ground-strafing crews got their guns unlimbered, and mud began to
splash up from below. But it wasn't enough. The gun emplacements were
only half manned, the remainder of the depopulated garrison having been
off-duty down in the compound.

The Jupiterians were swarming up the incline on which the fort stood,
attacking from the front and fanning out along the sides when they
reached firm ground. The morasses to the east and west were absolutely
impassable even to the swamp-men, which was what made Fort Washington
a strategic and envied stronghold.

Tex watched the attackers with mingled admiration and hatred. They had
guts; the kind the Red Indians must have had, back in the old days in
America. They had cruelty, too, and a fiendish genius for thinking up
tricks.

If the relief column didn't come soon, there might be one trick too
many, and the way would be left open for a breakthrough. The thin,
hard-held line of frontier posts could be flanked, cut off, and
annihilated.

Tex shuddered to think what that would mean for the colonists, already
coming hopefully into the fertile plateaus.

A sluggish breeze rolled the mist south into the swamps, and Tex got
his first clear look at the enemy. His heart jolted sharply.

This was no mere raid. This was an attack.

Hordes of tall warriors swarmed toward the walls, pale skinned giants
from the Sunless Land with snow-white hair coiled in warclubs at the
base of the skull. They wore girdles of reptile skin, and carried bags
slung over their brawny shoulders. In their hands they carried clubs
and crude bows.

Beside them, roaring and hissing, came their war-dogs; semi-erect
reptiles with prehensile paws, their powerful tails armed with
artificial spikes of bone.

Scaling ladders banged against the walls. Men and beasts began to
climb, covered by companions on the ground who hurled grenades of baked
mud from their bags.

"Beetle-bombs!" yelled Tex. "Watch yourselves!"

He thrust one ladder outward, and fired point-blank into a dead-white
face. A flying clay ball burst beside the man who fired the nearest
ground gun, and in a split second every inch of bare flesh was covered
by a sheath of huge scarlet beetles.

Tex's freckled face hardened. The man's screams knifed upward through
the thunder of wings. Tex put a bullet carefully through his head and
tumbled the body over the parapet. Some of the beetles were shaken off,
and he glimpsed bone, already bare and gleaming.

Missiles rained down from above; beetle-bombs, green snakes made
worm-size by starvation. The men were swarming up from the compound
now, but the few seconds of delay almost proved fatal.

The aerial attackers were plain in the thinning mist--lightly-built men
mounted on huge things that were half bird, half lizard.

The rusty netting jerked, catching the heavy bodies of man and lizard
shot down by the guns. Tex held his breath. That net was all that
protected them from a concerted dive attack that would give the natives
a foot-hold inside the walls.

A gun in A Battery choked into silence. Rust, somewhere in the
mechanism. No amount of grease could keep it out.

Breska swore sulphurously and stamped a small green thing flat. Red
beetles crawled along the stones--thank God the things didn't fly. Men
fought and died with the snakes. Another gun suddenly cut out.

Tex fired steadily at fierce white heads thrust above the parapet. The
man next to him stumbled against the infested stones. The voracious
scarlet flood surged over him, and in forty seconds his uniform sagged
on naked bones.

Breska's shout warned Tex aside as a lizard fell on the catwalk. Its
rider pitched into the stream of beetles and began to die. Wings beat
close overhead, and Tex crouched, aiming upward.

His freckled face relaxed in a stare of utter unbelief.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was beautiful. Pearl-white thighs circling the gray-green barrel
of her mount, silver hair streaming from under a snake-skin diadem
set with the horns of a swamp-rhino, a slim body clad in girdle and
breast-plates of irridescent scales.

Her face was beautiful, too, like a mask cut from pearl. But her eyes
were like pale-green flames, and the silver brows above them were drawn
into a straight bar of anger.

Tex had never seen such cold, fierce hate in any living creature, even
a rattler coiled to strike.

His gun was aimed, yet somehow he couldn't pull the trigger. When he
had collected his wits, she was gone, swooping like a stunting flyer
through the fire of the guns. She bore no weapons, only what looked
like an ancient hunting-horn.

Tex swore, very softly. He knew what that horned diadem meant.

This was the war chief!

The men had reached the parapet just in time. Tex blasted the head from
a miniature Tyrannosaurus, dodged the backlash of the spiked tail, and
threw down another ladder. Guns snarled steadily, and corpses were
piling up at the foot of the wall.

Tex saw the woman urge her flying mount over the pit of the compound,
saw her searching out the plan of the place--the living quarters, the
water tanks, the kitchen, the radio room.

Impelled by some inner warning that made him forget all reluctance to
war against a woman, Tex fired.

The bullet clipped a tress of her silver hair. Eyes like pale green
flames burned into his for a split second, and her lips drew back from
reptilian teeth, white, small, and pointed.

Then she whipped her mount into a swift spiral climb and was gone,
flashing through streamers of mist and powder-smoke.

A second later Tex heard the mellow notes of her horn, and the
attackers turned and vanished into the swamp.

As quickly as that, it was over. Yet Tex, panting and wiping the sticky
sweat from his forehead, wasn't happy.

He wished she hadn't smiled.

Men with blow-torches scoured the fort clean of beetles and green
snakes. One party sprayed oil on the heaps of bodies below and fired
them. The netting was cleared, their own dead burned.

Tex, who was a corporal, got his men together, and his heart sank as he
counted them. Thirty-two left to guard a fort that should be garrisoned
by seventy.

Another attack like that, and there might be none. Yet Tex had an
uneasy feeling that the attack had more behind it than the mere attempt
to carry the fort by storm. He thought of the woman whose brain had
evolved all these hideous schemes--the beetle-bombs, the green snakes.
She hadn't risked her neck for nothing, flying in the teeth of four
batteries.

He had salvaged the lock of silver hair his bullet had clipped. Now it
seemed almost to stir with malign life in his pocket.

Captain John Smith came out of the radio room. The officer's gaunt
face was oddly still, his gray eyes like chips of stone.

"At ease," he said. His pleasant English voice had that same quality of
dead stillness.

"Word has just come from Regional Headquarters. The swamp men have
attacked in force east of us, and have heavily beseiged Fort Nelson.
Our relief column had been sent to relieve them.

"More men are being readied, but it will take at least two weeks for
any help to reach us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tex heard the hard-caught breaths as the news took the men like a jolt
in the belly. And he saw eyes sliding furtively aside to the dense
black smoke pouring up from the incinerator, to the water tanks, and to
the broken grating.

Somebody whimpered. Tex heard Breska snarl, "Shut up!" The whimperer
was Kuna, the young Martian who had stared white-faced at the captain a
short while before.

Captain Smith went on.

"Our situation is serious. However, we can hold out another fortnight.
Supplies will have to be rationed still further, and we must conserve
ammunition and man-power as much as possible. But we must all remember
this.

"Help is coming. Headquarters are doing all they can."

"With the money they have," said Breska sourly, in Tex's ear. "Damn the
taxpayers!"

"... and we've only to hold out a few days longer. After all, we
volunteered for this job. Jupiter is a virgin planet. It's savage,
uncivilized, knowing no law but brute force. But it can be built into a
great new world.

"If we do our jobs well, some day these swamps will be drained, the
jungles cleared, the natives civilized. The people of Earth and Mars
will find new hope and freedom here. It's up to us."

The captain's grim, gaunt face relaxed, and his eyes twinkled.

"Pity we're none of us using our right names," he said. "Because I
think we're going to get them in the history books!"

The men laughed. The tension was broken. "Dismissed," said Captain
Smith, and strolled off to his quarters. Tex turned to Breska.

The Martian, his leathery dark face set, was gripping the arms of his
young countryman, the only other Martian in the fort.

"Listen," hissed Breska, his teeth showing white like a dog's fangs.
"Get hold of yourself! If you don't, you'll get into trouble."

Kuna trembled, his wide black eyes watching the smoke from the bodies
roll up into the fog. His skin lacked the leathery burn of Breska's.
Tex guessed that he came from one of the Canal cities, where things
were softer.

"I don't want to die," said Kuna softly. "I don't want to die in this
rotten fog."

"Take it easy, kid." Tex rubbed the sandy-red stubble on his chin and
grinned. "The Skipper'll get us through okay. He's aces."

"Maybe." Kuna's eyes wandered round to Tex. "But why should I take the
chance?"

He was shaken suddenly by a fit of coughing. When he spoke again, his
voice had risen and grown tight as a violin string.

"Why should I stay here and cough my guts out for something that will
never be anyway?"

"Because," said Breska grimly, "on Mars there are men and women
breaking their backs and their hearts, to get enough bread out of the
deserts. You're a city man, Kuna. Have you ever seen the famines that
sweep the drylands? Have you ever seen men with their ribs cutting
through the skin? Women and children with faces like skulls?

"That's why I'm here, coughing my guts out in this stinking fog.
Because people need land to grow food on, and water to grow it with."

Kuna's dark eyes rolled, and Tex frowned. He'd seen that same starry
look in the eyes of cattle on the verge of a stampede.

"What's the bellyache?" he said sharply. "You volunteered, didn't you?"

"I didn't know what it meant," Kuna whispered, and coughed. "I'll die
if I stay here. I don't want to die!"

"What," Breska said gently, "are you going to do about it?"

Kuna smiled. "She was beautiful, wasn't she, Tex?"

The Texan started. "I reckon she was, kid. What of it?"

"You have a lock of her hair. I saw you pick it from the net. The
net'll go out soon, like the grating did. Then there won't be anything
to keep the snakes and beetles off of us. She'll sit up there and watch
us die, and laugh.

"But I won't die, I tell you! I won't!"

He shuddered in Breska's hands, and began to laugh. The laugh rose
to a thin, high scream like the wailing of a panther. Breska hit him
accurately on the point of the jaw.

"Cafard," he grunted, as some of the men came running. "He'll come
round all right."

He dragged Kuna to the dormitory, and came back doubled up with
coughing from the exertion. Tex saw the pain in his dark face.

"Say," he murmured, "you'd better ask for leave when the relief gets
here."

"_If_ it gets here," gasped the Martian. "That attack at Fort Nelson
was just a feint to draw off our reinforcements."

Tex nodded. "Even if the varmints broke through there, they'd be
stopped by French River and the broken hills beyond it."

A map of Fort Washington's position formed itself in his mind; the
stone blockhouse commanding a narrow tongue of land between strips of
impassable swamp, barring the way into the valley. The valley led back
into the uplands, splitting so that one arm ran parallel to the swamps
for many miles.

To fierce and active men like the swamp-dwellers, it would be no trick
to swarm down that valley, take Fort Albert and Fort George by surprise
in a rear attack, and leave a gap in the frontier defenses that could
never be closed in time.

And then hordes of white-haired warriors would swarm out, led by that
beautiful fury on the winged lizard, rouse the more lethargic pastoral
tribes against the colonists, and sweep outland Peoples from the face
of Venus.

"They could do it, too," Tex muttered. "They outnumber us a thousand to
one."

"And," added Breska viciously, "the lousy taxpayers won't even give us
decent equipment to fight with."

Tex grinned. "Armies are always step-children. I guess the sheep just
never did like the goats, anyhow." He shrugged. "Better keep an eye on
Kuna. He might try something."

"What could he do? If he deserts, they'll catch him trying to skip out,
if the savages don't get him first. He won't try it."

But in the morning Kuna was gone, and the lock of silver hair in Tex's
pocket was gone with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Five hot, steaming days dragged by. The water sank lower and lower
in the tank. Flakes of rust dropped from every metal surface at the
slightest touch.

Tex squatted on a slimy block of stone in the compound, trying to
forget hunger and thirst in the task of sewing a patch on his pants.
Fog gathered in droplets on the reddish hairs of his naked legs,
covered his face with a greasy patina.

Breska crouched beside him, coughing in deep, slow spasms. Out under
the sagging net, men were listlessly washing underwear in a tub of
boiled swamp water. The stuff held some chemical that caused a stubborn
sickness no matter what you did to it.

Tex looked at it thirstily. "Boy!" he muttered. "What I wouldn't give
for just one glass of ice water!"

"Shut up," growled Breska. "At least, I've quit being hungry."

He coughed, his dark face twisted in pain. Tex sighed, trying to ignore
the hunger that chewed his own belly like a prisoned wolf.

Nine more days to go. Food and water cut to the barest minimum. Gun
parts rusting through all the grease they could put on. The strands of
the net were perilously thin. Even the needle in his hand was rusted so
that it tore the cloth.

Of the thirty-one men left after Kuna deserted, they had lost seven;
four by green snakes slipped in through broken drain gratings, three
by beetle-bombs tossed over the parapet. There had been no further
attacks. In the dark, fog-wrapped nights, swamp men smeared with black
mud crept silently under the walls, delivered their messages of death,
and vanished.

In spite of the heat, Tex shivered. How much longer would this silent
war go on? The swamp-men had to clear the fort before the relief column
came. Where was Kuna, and why had he stolen that lock of hair? And what
scheme was the savage beauty who led these devils hatching out?

Water slopped in the tub. Somebody cursed because the underwear never
dried in this lousy climate. The heat of the hidden sun seeped down in
stifling waves.

And suddenly a guard on the parapet yelled.

"Something coming out of the swamp! Man the guns!"

Tex hauled his pants on and ran with the others. Coming up beside the
lookout, he drew his pistol and waited.

Something was crawling up the tongue of dry land toward the fort. At
first he thought it was one of the scaly war-dogs. Then he caught a
gleam of scarlet collar-facings, and shouted.

"Hold your fire, men! It's Kuna!"

The grey, stooped thing came closer, going on hands and knees, its dark
head hanging. Tex heard Breska's harsh breathing beside him. Abruptly
the Martian turned and ran down the steps.

"Don't go out there, Breska!" Tex yelled. "It may be a trap." But the
Martian went on, tugging at the rusty lugs that held the postern gate.
It came open, and he went out.

Tex sent men down to guard it, fully expecting white figures to burst
from the fog and attempt to force the gate.

Breska reached the crawling figure, hauled it erect and over one
shoulder, and started back at a stumbling run. Still there was no
attack. Tex frowned, assailed by some deep unease. If Kuna had gone
into the swamps, he should never have returned alive. There was a trap
here somewhere, a concealed but deadly trick.

Silence. The rank mist lay in lazy coils. Not a leaf rustled in the
swamp edges.

Tex swore and ran down the steps. Breska fell through the gate and
sagged down, coughing blood, and it was Tex who caught Kuna.

The boy lay like a grey skeleton in his arms, the bones of his face
almost cutting the skin. His mouth was open. His tongue was black and
swollen, like that of a man dying of thirst.

Kuna's sunken, fever-yellowed eyes opened. They found the tub, in which
soiled clothing still floated.

With a surge of strength that took Tex completely by surprise, the boy
broke from him and ran to the water, plunging his face in and gulping
like an animal.

Tex pulled him away. Kuna sagged down, sobbing. There was something
wrong about his face, but Tex couldn't think what.

"Won't let me drink," he whispered. "Still won't let me drink. Got to
have water." He clawed at Tex. "Water!"

Tex sent someone after it, trying to think what was strange about Kuna,
scowling. There were springs of sweet water in the swamps, and even the
natives couldn't drink the other. Was it simply the desire to torture
that had made them deny the deserter water?

Tex caught the boy's collar. "How did you get away?"

But Kuna struggled to his knees. "Breska," he gasped. "Breska!"

The older man looked at him, wiping blood from his lips. Kuna said
something in Martian, retched, choked on his own blood, and fell over.
Tex knew he was dead.

"What did he say, Breska?"

The Martian's teeth showed briefly white.

"He said he wished he'd had my guts." His expression changed abruptly.
He caught Tex's shoulder.

"Look, Tex! Look at the water!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Where there had been nearly a full tub, there was now only a little
moisture left in the bottom. While Tex watched, that too disappeared,
leaving the wood dry.

Tex picked up an undershirt. It was as dry as any he'd ever hung in
the prairie air, back in Texas. He touched his face. The skin was like
sun-cured leather. His hair had not a drop of fog on it.

Yet the mist hung as heavy as ever.

Captain Smith came out of the radio room, looking up at the net and the
guns. Tex heard him mutter, quite unconsciously.

"It's the rust that'll beat us. It's the rust that'll lose us Jupiter
in the end."

Tex said, "Captain...."

Smith looked at him, startled. But he never had time to ask what the
matter was. The lookout yelled. Wings rushed overhead. Guns chattered
from the parapet. The attack was on.

Tex ran automatically for the catwalk. Passing Kuna's crumpled body, he
realized something he should have seen at first.

"Kuna's body was dry when he came into the fort. All dry, even his
clothes." And then, "Why did the swamp-men wait until he was safely
inside and the door closed to attack?"

With a quarter of their guns disabled and two-thirds of their garrison
gone, they still held superiority due to their position and powerful
weapons.

There was no concerted attempt to force the walls. Groups of
white-haired warriors made sallies, hurled beetle-bombs and weighed
bags of green snakes, and retired into the mist. They lost men, but not
many.

In the air, it was different. The weird, half-feathered mounts wheeled
and swooped, literally diving into the gunbursts, the riders hurling
missiles with deadly accuracy. And they were dying, men and lizards, by
the dozen.

Tex, feeling curiously dazed, fired automatically. Bodies thrashed into
the net. Rust flakes showered like rain. Looking at the thin strands,
Tex wondered how long it would hold.

Abruptly he caught sight of what, subconsciously, he'd been looking
for. She was there, darting high over the melee, her silver hair
flying, her body an iridescent pearl in the mist.

Captain Smith spoke softly.

"You see what she's up to, Tex? Those flyers are volunteers. Their
orders are to kill as many of our men as possible before they die
themselves, but they must fall inside the walls! On the net, Tex. To
weaken, break it, if possible."

Tex nodded. "And when it goes...."

"We go. We haven't enough men to beat them if they should get inside
the walls."

Smith brushed his small military mustache, his only sign of
nervousness. Tex saw him start, saw him touch the bristles wonderingly,
then finger his skin, his tunic, his hair.

"Dry," he said, and looked at the fog. "My Lord, dry!"

"Yes," returned Tex grimly. "Kuna brought it back. He couldn't get wet
even when he tried to drink. Something that eats water. Even if the net
holds, we'll die of thirst before we're relieved."

He turned in sudden fury on the distant figure of the woman and emptied
his gun futilely at her swift-moving body.

"Save your ammunition," cautioned Smith, and cried out, sharply.

Tex saw it, the tiny green thing that had fastened on his wrist. He
pulled his knife and lunged forward, but already the snake had grown
incredibly. Smith tore at it vainly.

Tex got in one slash, felt his knife slip futilely on rubbery flesh of
enormous contractile power. Then the venom began to work. A mad look
twisted the officer's face. His gun rose and began to spit bullets.

Grimly, Tex shot the gun out of Smith's hand, and struck down with the
gun-barrel. Smith fell. But already the snake had thrown a coil round
his neck and shifted its grip to the jugular.

Tex sawed at the rubbery flesh. Beaten as though with a heavy whip, he
stood at last with the body still writhing in his hand.

Captain Smith was dead, with the snake's jaws buried in his throat.

Dimly Tex heard the mellow notes of the war-chief's horn. The sky
cleared of the remnants of the suicide squad. The ground attackers
vanished into the swamps. And then the woman whirled her mount sharply
and sped straight for the fort.

Puffs of smoke burst around her but she was not hit. Low over the
parapet she came, so that Tex saw the pupils of her pale-green eyes,
the vital flow of muscles beneath pearly skin.

He fired, but his gun was empty.

She flung one hand high in derisive salute, and was gone. And Breska
spoke softly behind Tex.

"You're in command now. And there are just the fourteen of us left."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tex stood staring down at the dead and dying caught in the rusty net.
He felt suddenly tired; so tired that just standing and looking seemed
too much drain on his wasted strength.

He didn't want to fight any more. He wanted to drink, to sleep, and
forget.

There was only one possible end. His mouth and throat were dry with
this strange new dryness, his thirst intensified a hundredfold. The
swamp men had only to wait. In another week they could take the fort
without losing a man.

Even with the reduced numbers of the defenders, this fiendish thing
would make their remaining water supply inadequate. And then another
thought struck him.

Suppose it stayed there, so that even if by some miracle the garrison
held out, it made holding the fort impossible no matter how many men,
or how much water there was.

The men were looking at him. Tex let the dead snake drop to the catwalk
and vanish under a pall of scarlet beetles.

"Clean up this mess," said Tex automatically. Breska's black eyes were
brilliant and very hard. Why didn't the men move?

"Go on," Tex snapped. "I'm ranking officer here now."

The men turned to their task with a queer reluctance. One of them, a
big scar-faced hulk with a mop of hair far redder far than Tex's, stood
long after the others had gone, watching him out of narrowed green eyes.

Tex went slowly down into the compound. There were no breaks in the
net, but another few days of rust would finish them.

What was the use of fighting on? If they left now, they might get out
alive. Headquarters could send more men, retake Fort Washington.

But Headquarters didn't have many men. And the woman with the eyes like
pale-green flames wouldn't waste any time.

Some falling body had crushed a beetle-bomb caught in the net. The
scarlet things were falling like drops of blood on Kuna's body. Tex
smiled crookedly. In a few seconds there'd be nothing left of the
flesh Kuna had cherished so dearly.

And then Tex rubbed freckled hands over his tired blue eyes, wondering
if he were at last delirious.

The beetles weren't eating Kuna.

They swirled around him restlessly, scenting meat, but they didn't
touch him. His face showed parchment dry under the whorls of fog. And
suddenly Tex understood.

"It's because he's dry. They won't touch anything dry."

Recklessly, he put his own hand down in the scarlet stream. It divided
and flowed around it, disdaining the parched flesh.

Tex laughed, a brassy laugh with an edge of hysteria in it. Now
that they were going to die anyway, they didn't have to worry about
beetle-bombs.

Feet, a lot of them, clumped up to where he knelt. The red-haired giant
with the green eyes stood over him, the men in a sullen, hard-faced
knot behind him.

The red-haired man, whose name was Bull, had a gun in his hand. He said
gruffly,

"We're leavin', Tex."

Tex got up. "Yeah?"

"Yeah. We figure it's no use stayin'. Comin' with us?"

Why not? It was his only chance for life. He had no stake in the
colonies. He'd joined the Legion for adventure.

Then he looked at Kuna, and at Breska, thinking of all the people of
two worlds who needed ground to grow food on, and water to grow it
with. Something, perhaps the ancestor who had died in the Alamo, made
him shake his sandy head.

"I reckon not," he said. "And I reckon you ain't, either."

He was quick on the draw, but Bull had his gun already out. The bullet
thundered against Tex's skull. The world exploded into fiery darkness,
through which he heard Breska say,

"Sure, Bull. Why should I stay here to die for nothing?"

Tex tried to cry out, but the blackness drowned him.

He came to lying on the catwalk. His head was bandaged. Frowning, he
opened his eyes, blinking against the pain.

Breska hunched over the nearest gun, whistling softly through his
teeth. "The Lone Prairee." Tex stared incredulously.

"I--I thought you'd gone with the others."

Breska grinned. "I just wasn't as dumb as you. I hung behind till they
were all outside, and then I barred the door. I'd seen you weren't
dead, and--well, this cough's got me anyway, and I hate forced marches.
They give me blisters."

They grinned at each other. Tex said,

"We're a couple of damn fools, but I reckon we're stuck with it. Okay.
Let's see how long we can fool 'em." He got up, gingerly. "The Skipper
had some books in his quarters. Maybe one of 'em would tell what this
dry stuff is."

Breska coughed and nodded. "I'll keep watch."

Tex's throat burned, but he was afraid to drink. If the water
evaporated in his mouth as it had in Kuna's....

He had to try. Not knowing was worse than knowing. A second later he
stood with an empty cup in his hand, fighting down panic.

Half the water had vanished before he got the cup to his mouth. The
rest never touched his tongue. Yet there was nothing to see, nothing to
feel. Nothing but dryness.

He turned and ran for Captain Smith's quarters.

Hertford's _Jungles of Jupiter_, the most comprehensive work on a
subject still almost unknown, lay between Kelland's _Field Tactics_
and _Alice in Wonderland_. Tex took it down, leafing through it as he
climbed to the parapet.

"Here it is," he said suddenly. "'Dry Spots. These are fairly common
phenomena in certain parts of the swamplands. Seemingly Nature's method
for preserving the free oxygen balance in the atmosphere, colonies of
ultra-microscopic animalcules spring up, spreading apparently from
spores carried by animals which blunder into the dry areas.

"'These animalcules attach themselves to hosts, inanimate or otherwise,
and absorb all water vapor or still water nearby, utilizing the
hydrogen in some way not yet determined, and liberating free oxygen.
They become dormant during the rainy season, apparently unable to cope
with running water. They expand only within definite limits, and the
life of each colony runs about three weeks, after which it vanishes.'"

"The rains start in about a week," said Breska. "Our relief can't
get here under nine days. They can pick us off with snakes and
beetle-bombs, or let us go crazy with thirst, let the first shower
clear out the ani--the whatyoucallits, and move in. Then they can
slaughter our boys when they come up, and have the whole of Jupiter
clear."

Tex told him about Kuna and the beetles. "The snakes probably won't
touch us, either." He pounded a freckled fist on the stones. "If we
could find some way to drink, and if the guns and the net didn't rust,
we might hold them off long enough."

"'If'," grunted Breska. "If we were in heaven, we wouldn't have to
worry."

       *       *       *       *       *

The days that followed blurred into a daze of thirst and ceaseless
watching. For easier defence, there was only one way down from the
parapet through the net. They took the least rusted of the guns and
filled the small gap. They could hold out there until they collapsed,
or the net gave.

They wasted several quarts of water in vain attempts to drink. Then
they gave it up. The final irony of it made Tex laugh.

"Here we are, being noble till it hurts, and it won't matter a damn.
The Skipper was right. It's the rust that'll lose us Venus in the
end--that, and these Dry Spots."

Food made thirst greater. They stopped eating. They became mere
skeletons, moving feebly in sweat-box heat. Breska stopped coughing.

"It's breathing dry air," he said, in a croaking whisper. "It's so
funny I could laugh."

A scarlet beetle crawled over Tex's face where he lay beside the
Martian on the catwalk. He brushed it off, dragging weak fingers across
his forehead. His skin was dry, but not as dry as he remembered it
after windy days on the prairie.

"Funny it hasn't taken more oil out of my skin." He struggled suddenly
to a sitting position. "Oil! It might work. Oh, God, let it work! It
must!"

Breska stared at him out of sunken eyes as he half fell down the steps.
Then a sound overhead brought the Martian's gaze upward.

"A scout, Tex! They'll attack!"

Tex didn't hear him. His whole being was centered on one thing--the
thing that would mean the difference between life and death.

Dimly, as he staggered into the room where the oil was kept, Tex heard
a growing thunder of wings. He groaned. If Breska could only hold out
for a moment.

It took all his strength to turn the spigot of the oil drum. It was
empty. All the stuff had been used to burn bodies. Almost crying, Tex
crawled to the next one, and the next. It was the fourth drum that
yielded black, viscous fluid.

Forcing stiff lips apart, Tex drank.

If there'd been anything in him, he'd have vomited. The vile stuff
coated lips, tongue, throat. Outside, Breska's gun cut in sharply. Tex
dragged himself to the water tank.

"Running water," he thought. Tilting his head up under the spigot,
he turned the tap. Water splashed out. Some of it hit his skin and
vanished. But the rest ran down his oil-filmed throat. He felt it, warm
and brackish and wonderful, in his stomach.

He laughed, and let go a cracked rebel yell. Then he turned and lurched
back outside, toward the steps.

The net sagged to the weight of white-haired warriors and roaring
lizards. Breska's gun choked and stammered into silence. Tex groaned in
utter agony.

It was too late. The rust had beaten them.

His freckled, oil-smeared face tightened grimly. Drawing his gun, he
charged the steps.

"Where the hell did you go?" snarled Breska. "The ammo belt jammed." He
grabbed for the other gun set in the narrow gap.

Then it wasn't rust! And Tex realized something else. There were no
rust flakes falling from the net.

Something had stopped the rusting. Before, his physical anguish had
been too great for him to see that the net strands grew no thinner,
the gun-barrels no rustier.

Scraps of the explanation shot through Tex's mind. Breska's cough
stopping because the air was dried before it reached his lungs. Dry
stone. Dry clothing.

Dry metal! The water-eating organisms kept the surface dry. There could
be no rust.

"We've licked 'em, Breska! By God, we've licked 'em!" He shouldered the
Martian out of the way, gripped the triggers of the gun. Shouting over
the din, he told Breska how to drink, sent him lurching down the steps.
He could hold the gap alone for a few minutes.

Looking up, Tex found her, swooping low over the fight, her silver hair
flying in the wind. Tex shouted at her.

"You did it! You outsmarted yourself, lady. You showed us the way!"

Scientists could find out how to harness the Dry Spots to keep off the
rust, and still let the soldiers drink.

And some day the swamps would be drained, and men and women would find
new wealth, new life, new horizons here on Jupiter.

Breska came back, grinning, and fought the jam out of the gun. White
bodies began to pile up, mixed with the saurian carcasses of their
war-dogs. And presently the notes of the war-chief's horn drifted down,
and the attackers faded back into the swamps.

And suddenly, wheeling her mount away from the others, the warrior
woman swooped low over the parapet. Tex held his fire. For a moment he
thought she was going to dash her lizard into them. Then, at the last
second, she pulled him up in a thundering climb.

Her face was a cut-pearl mask of fury, but her pale-green eyes held
doubt, the beginning of an awed fear. Then she was gone, bent low over
her mount, her silver hair hiding her face.

Breska watched her go. "For Mars," he said softly. Then, pounding Tex
on the chest until he winced.

Two voices, cracked, harsh, and unmusical, drifted after the retreating
form of the white-haired war-chief.

"Oh, bury us not on the lone praire-e-e...."





End of Project Gutenberg's The Dragon-Queen of Jupiter, by Leigh Brackett

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DRAGON-QUEEN OF JUPITER ***

***** This file should be named 61890.txt or 61890.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/8/9/61890/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
