The Project Gutenberg EBook of Sargasso of the Stars, by Frederic A. Kummer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Sargasso of the Stars

Author: Frederic A. Kummer

Release Date: April 27, 2020 [EBook #61958]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SARGASSO OF THE STARS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         SARGASSO OF THE STARS

                      By FREDERICK A. KUMMER, Jr.

               The Spot was the curse of the Universe--a
               drifting Sargasso of vanished spaceships
                          and soul-lost men.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Haller watched silently as they crowded into the control room. His eyes
were slivers of gray granite, but he didn't speak. There was a long
moment of silence as the five men, scum of the space-ports, shifted
uneasily, their faces strained, tense. Haller frowned; he'd been
expecting something like this for the past few days. From now on it
would be his nerve against their strength.

"Well?" he snapped, whip-like. "What is it?"

Carlson, the big engineer, shouldered to the fore. His massive frame
and sloping skull betrayed his Jovian blood, even as the scars and
purple ray burns on his bulging forearm betrayed a checkered, violent
past.

"We want to know where you're taking us!" he rumbled. "Seltzsky here,
says it's off the regular lanes. If we're not heading for Jupiter,
where're we going? We got a right to know."

Icy as outer space, Haller surveyed them. The pilots at Mercis had
likened him, since the _Cosmic_ affair, to a living robot, devoid of
all feeling, all emotion. Now, as he stared at the sullen crew, this
simile was especially apt. His lean, set face held a curious hardness,
as if it had been hammered from steel, and one sensed about him a
terrible determination, an unswerving singleness of purpose, found in
men who pursue a self-imposed duty rather than the call of adventure.
Haller's eyes made one think that he had gazed upon all the worlds, all
things that lived, and found them dull, futile.

"So you think you've a right to know where we're bound?" he said
deliberately. "You'll recall that I chartered this ship, that you all
signed on for three months, no questions asked. However," ... he smiled
unhumorously ... "since you're so interested, I'll tell you."

Haller turned to the big chart upon the control room's wall, pointed.

"Our present position is about here ... ten days out of Mars and rather
off the regular lanes. Our destination is this." He indicated a shaded
area forming the apex of a vague triangle of which Mars and Jupiter
were the other angles. "This area is known, for want of a better name,
as the Magnetic Spot. Ships passing near it report radio disturbances,
variations in their instruments. And that's where we're going! Any more
questions?"

"The ... the Magnetic Spot?" Seltzsky, the wizened little navigator,
cried. "But.... Good God! Every ship that goes near it disappears!
Dozens, hundreds of 'em! The _Valerian_, the _Explorer_, the _Io_!
Warships, liners, freighters! You're mad! Only two months ago, the
_Cosmic_...."

At mention of the _Cosmic_ a bitter flame leaped in Haller's eyes. His
hand shot to the atomite gun at his waist.

"That's enough!" he barked. "You wanted to find out where you were
going, and now you know! Get back to your quarters!"

Carlson and Seltzsky leaned forward, their savage faces intent, fists
knotted. Haller's cold gaze did not flicker. For a long moment the
tension was like a dark bubble, growing, growing, as it approached the
breaking point. Suddenly old Barger, the quartermaster, laughed.

"You're licked!" he grated. "Just as I said you'd be! I'll take one
_man_, like Cap'n Haller, to a dozen blustering bullies like you!" He
touched his cap, submissively. "To the Magnetic Spot or to hell, sir,
if you say so! Come along, you lily-livered space-rats! Back to your
stations!"

And then Carlson leaped, his face contorted with rage. Haller's hand
gripped the atomite gun, jerked it from its holster, but before he
could fire, the engineer's huge fist crashed against his jaw. One
moment's glimpse, he had, of Barger going down under the assault of the
other spacehands, and then the world went black.

       *       *       *       *       *

Steve Haller came to, to find himself in the closet-like chart room.
His hands were bound, and his jaw ached. Barger lay opposite him; the
grizzled old quartermaster appeared to be still unconscious. Haller
struggled to his knees, peered out of the small observation port.
Space ... silent, intangible, unknown! Stars crawling painfully across
the black void, and no one knew what mysteries lurking in the vast
reaches between worlds. Like the Magnetic Spot....

Haller turned from the port, his face more like steel than ever. No
chance of helping Barger as long as his hands were tied. The ship
was silent, and without apparent motion in spite of the speed she
was making; it gave one the impression of falling through a dark
bottomless pit. Impossible to tell how long he'd been out, but they
should be nearing the Magnetic Spot. He swore helplessly. Might have
known that crew of space-rats would turn yellow, mutiny. Not that he
blamed them so much, after the tales that were told about the Spot.
Hundreds of ships, in the course of the past two centuries, had entered
it, some fleeing meteor storms or enemy ships in time of war, others
deliberately, in hopes of learning its secret. And none had ever
returned. The whispered yarns told in spacemen's dives were lurid in
their speculations about that strange unknown area.

Haller's thoughts turned to the _Cosmic_, and his eyes grew tortured.
Fay Carroll had been aboard the liner. Fay of the sleek, bronze
hair, the laughing blue eyes, the curved red lips that were scarlet
scimiters, stabbing at men's hearts. Reckless, madcap, with just enough
of the devil in her to add piquancy to her charm. And now she was gone.
He, Haller, had been to blame. He'd radioed her from Jupiter to meet
him there, and she'd taken the first out-going ship, the _Cosmic_. And
the _Cosmic_, driven off her course by a meteor storm, had last been
reported on the outskirts of the Spot.

Haller moved restlessly, straining against his bonds. The lines about
his mouth deepened as the old self-accusation returned to plague
him. If he hadn't sent Fay that radiogram, urging her to come to
Jupiter, she'd be alive today. For months that one thought had beat
like a rocket-blast through his mind. It had changed him from a gay,
happy-go-lucky space-pilot to a living robot, had driven him to resign
from Trans-Jovian, sink his savings, the money he'd hoped to spend on a
home for Fay, in chartering this old tub, the _Lodestar_, and setting
out on this vain hope. He'd recruited his crew from the space-dives
of Mars, loaded the ramshackle tramp with fuel, and headed for the
Magnetic Spot. Not that he'd believed there was any chance of finding
Fay, but he'd felt that if he could discover the secret of the Spot,
he'd have done his bit toward atoning. Now, thanks to the mutinous
crew, even that poor consolation was denied him. Yellow scum of space,
without enough guts to venture into the unknown area!

A click of the chart room door drew Haller's gaze. Carlson appeared in
the entrance, his great hands gripping an atomite gun, a broad grin on
his brutish countenance.

"All right, you two," he grunted. "Come on out! We're going to have
a little bull session! Up, you _molat_!" He prodded Barger not too
quietly with the toe of his boot.

The quartermaster groaned, swayed to his feet. Dazed, he followed
Haller out into the control room. Seltzsky, Wallace, and Kindt stood
grouped about the navigator's table, their faces flushed with triumph.
A bottle of fiery Martian _tong_, half-empty, stood before them.

"Okay," Carlson barked. "Now you listen to us! If you think we're
going into the Magnetic Spot, you're nuts! But long's you're so
anxious to see what it's like, you and Barger can go, in one of the
life rockets! We'll take this packet to Jupiter, sell it, and whack up
the dough! And you can run around the Spot in the life rocket to your
heart's content, while your fuel holds out!"

"Life rocket!" Barger growled. "You dirty dogs! They don't carry enough
fuel to get us a quarter of the way back to Mars! You can't...."

Carlson laughed, deep in his hairy chest.

"Right!" he said. "We'll be rid of both of you! An unfortunate
accident, o' course. We'll be so sorry when we reach Jupiter! We'll
think of you cruising around the Spot until you run out of tri-oxine!"
He motioned to the companionway. "We got the life rocket all ready! Get
going!"

Haller glanced through a port at the bitter darkness of space. Sent out
in a life rocket! No chance of even reaching the ship-lanes in one of
the little cylinders! Doomed to drift without control in the void until
lack of food, oxygen, brought death!

"Come on!" Seltzsky dug a gun into his back. "Step on it!"

"Wait a minute!" Haller's gaze shifted to the control panel. Suddenly
he laughed. "So you're heading for Mars after you get rid of us? Going
to try it without instruments?"

"Without instruments?" Seltzsky's beady eyes swung to the illuminated
board, and his face went white. The gravity compass and spaceometer
were swinging back and forth crazily until they seemed like metronomes!

"The controls! They've gone haywire!" Carlson dropped the bottle
of _tong_, made a dive for the radio. "We'll call Mars, pick up a
beam." His voice trailed away. The screen of the televisor was a haze
of fantastically dancing dots, the speaker gave off a fierce and
uninterrupted crackle of static!

"Beginning to enjoy yourselves?" Haller queried lazily. "That's how it
got the name of the Magnetic Spot! You waited just a trifle too long
before putting the ship about!"

"Huh!" Carlson sprang to the controls. "The forward rockets'll throw
us in reverse! Once we're out of the field, the radio and dials'll come
back to normal!" He tugged at levers and the stuttering roar of the
forward rockets shook the ship, while through the observation port they
could see red flame enveloping her nose.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly Carlson drew back on the lever, to ease the shock of
deceleration. The cabin was silent, tomb-like, the pressure of braking
squeezed the breath from them. Long minutes passed, as notch by
notch, the big half-breed drew back the lever. Speed dropped from the
_Lodestar_ until it merely crept across the heavens. Now the forward
rockets were open full, and in another moment the ship should have
lost all forward momentum, commenced gathering speed in reverse.
Minute after minute passed, but the _Lodestar_ continued on ahead at
approximately landing speed. Sweat broke out on Carlson's sloping brow.

"Rockets on full!" he muttered. "And she's still going forward! We ...
we're caught in some sort of current, being drawn along."

"Into the Spot!" Haller cried. "Might as well take these ropes off
Barger and me, we're all in this together! And if you hadn't slugged
me, you might not be in this mess right now!"

The four mutineers were thoroughly cowed, sober, now, their coarse
faces drawn with fear. Suddenly Seltzsky gasped. The pocket of his coat
was bulging out as though a live thing were in it! He reached down,
drew out a pocket knife ... and the knife showed an amazing inclination
to move toward the front of the ship! Seltzsky had all he could do to
hang onto it; invisible strings seemed to be trying to tug it from
his hand! The others, too, were finding key-rings, metal buckles,
drawing toward the front of the ship. A cloud of instruments from the
navigator's desk flew forward and plastered themselves against the
front wall of the cabin! Carlson's gun popped from its holster, crashed
against the wall, stuck there!

"It.... It's screwy!" Kindt whimpered. "It ain't human!"

"Simple!" Haller laughed unhumorously. "Magnetism! Magnetism stronger
than any ever imagined! It's got the ship in its grip!" He twisted his
bound hands. "Let us loose, you fools! We're all in the same boat!"

With an effort Seltzsky cut the two men's bonds. A moment later as he
relaxed his grip, the knife clanged against the forward wall of the
cabin. At that instant, Carlson, peering through the glassex port,
gave a fierce, terrified cry. Ahead and below them, weird in the light
of the flaring red rockets, was a rocky rubble-strewn plain! Only an
instant's glimpse of it, Haller had, before the loud, grinding crash,
throwing him heavily to the floor!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was some minutes before the stunned Haller picked himself up. The
_Lodestar_ was bumping about, tossing, like a ship at sea. A scraping,
crashing sound filled her hull, and the roar of the exhausts sounded
like continuous thunder. Barger got unsteadily to his feet and
staggered to the controls.

"It ... it's a planetoid of some sort!" he muttered. "The magnetism
holds us down, but the force of the rockets is grinding us forward
over the rocks! It'll rip open our plates!" He made a grab for the
rocket-control, but the rolling, tossing motion of the _Lodestar_
balked him, throwing him against the wall.

Suddenly Haller, peering through the port, gave a cry of wonder. The
blinding glare of the forward rockets, driving them in reverse across
the rubbled plain, prevented him from seeing anything nearby, while
further off, the darkness hung like a pall. In the distance, however,
a line of light had become suddenly visible ... pale, orange light,
stretching across the close horizon! Brighter and brighter it grew,
as the shuddering, bumping vessel ground over the little planetoid's
strangely rough surface.

"What ... what is it?" Seltzsky muttered. "It's like a great fire
across half of this crazy world!" His face showed fear.

Haller stared, then realization gripped him. They were on the unknown
world's darkside, and the line of light indicated its sunside.

His face cleared.

"Sunlight!" he exclaimed. "That's the day side of this chunk of rock!
Leave the rockets on, 'til we reach it, Barger! Another mile won't
make much difference now, and if we can see where we are, we may be
able to do something about it!"

Barger nodded doubtfully and the _Lodestar_ continued to grind ahead
toward the line of sunlight. The four mutineers had lost all their
bluster; cringing against the wall, they gazed at Haller as though
expecting him to find some way out of this mad place. They had been
brave, out in open space, but now, face to face with the unknown, they
instinctively sought his leadership.

Onward the _Lodestar_ ploughed, held down by the strange magnetism,
driven forward by her rockets. At the edge of the dawn-like light,
however, there came a staggering shock, as the vessel glanced against a
mammoth boulder, and one of the stout glassex ports starred, and then
shattered.

"God!" Carlson gave a rising, bubbling cry of terror. "Broken! Our
air...."

But there was no hiss of escaping air, no awful suffocation. Haller,
who had torn off his coat to stuff into the gap, paused, eyes narrowed.
A strange sharp odor had permeated the control room, and he felt an odd
exhilaration.

"Air!" Kindt muttered. "Air! Thin, but with a high oxygen content! It's
safe out there! Safe!"

"Right!" Old Barger cried exultantly. "We can go out, have a look
around!" He snapped shut the flaring exhausts, sprang quickly toward an
airlock. "Come on! Let's go!"

"Wait a minute!" Haller turned to the wall against which the atomite
gun had been held. Now that the magnetic center was beneath them, the
collection of iron and steel objects had fallen to the floor. With an
effort Haller wrenched the gun free, thanking his stars that only the
trigger and recoil mechanism were of steel. Even so, the weapon, drawn
groundward, seemed to weigh pounds. Gripping it, Haller opened the
massive doors of the airlock, swung through.

The sight that greeted his gaze defied comparison. The entire surface
of the little world was deep with uneven, jagged rocks, roughly
spherical in shape. Some of vast size, larger than a spaceship, some
no bigger than marbles, they appeared to have fallen like hailstones
upon the asteroid's surface, covering it to an unknown depth. Peering
between two of the larger stones, Haller could see a crevasse of
appalling deepness, and below it, more of the loose rounded rocks.
How large the original planetoid was, he could not imagine, but it
was evident that for millenniums its magnetic attraction had been
collecting about it meteors, most of which have a high ferrous content,
drawing them to it and increasing its size. The little world was like
a spider ... a spider of space ... catching all ferrous objects in
its magnetic field, sucking them to it, fattening on them! Meteors,
spaceships, iron-permeated cosmic dust ... all were drawn inexorably to
it!

Queer as was this great top-layer of meteoric stone, it received only
a passing glance from the crew of the _Lodestar_. Their gaze was fixed
on the gleaming, cylindrical shapes that lay scattered over the rocky,
gray plain. In the weird half-light dozens of them could be seen, large
and small. Spaceships! Spaceships of every size, sort, and description!
The surface of the tiny world was littered with them, some half-buried
beneath meteoric stone, some hopelessly wrecked, some, like the
_Lodestar_ intact.

Haller and his companions stared in awed wonder at the scene.
Space-craft of every type, every era. Great liners, all burnished
chrome and glass; sleek cruisers, heavily armored, their big ray-guns
peeping through open ports; rusty, battered freighters; old vessels
of the design of a century, two centuries before, with their archaic
wind-vanes and detachable rockets. The names inlaid upon their sides
were keys to countless mysteries of the void. Here was the long-lost
_Tycho_, vanished off Jupiter with a billion dollars' worth of polonium
in her holds; here, the ancient _Explorer_ which had headed for the
outer planets two hundred years before, and never returned; here,
the battle-cruiser _Valiant_, long since given up for lost, and upon
which the last remains of Commander Lane, hero of the Venusian wars,
must lie. Ship after ship, venturing too near the Spot, caught in its
magnetic field, drawn to the tremendously magnetized surface of this
grasping, spider-like little world.

"The Isle of Lost Spaceships!" Barger gasped. "Great Cosmos! Must be
hundreds of 'em, scattered over the surface, caught by the chunk of
lodestone that's at the center of these ferrous meteors!"

Haller nodded.

"Steel ships and magnetic field," he said somberly. "The asteroid
proper, within this layer of steel and iron it's attracted, must have
tremendous power. Still, even back in the 20th century they had alloys
which, when permanently magnetized, could do fancy tricks. A piece
the size of your thumbnail would support two hundred pounds. Plenty
powerful. And this planetoid must be of similar stuff." He grinned
crookedly. "Seems as if the secret of the Magnetic Spot's solved. Not
that we'll ever get back to tell it. We're caught like the others."
Haller glanced at the battered, dust-covered ships strewing the rubbled
plain, and then suddenly the set, robot-like look faded from his face.
Pale, tense, he stared at a big liner that bulked against the horizon.

Wheeling, Haller sprang into the ship, returned with a pair of powerful
field-glasses. For a long moment he focused them upon the vessel when
he spoke, his voice shook.

"It's the ... the _Cosmic_! And Fay...." Abruptly he spun about,
barking orders. "I'm going to find out if anyone's left alive aboard
her. Barger, you and Kindt'll come with me! You others stay here and
keep watch over the ship! No telling what dangers we're liable to run
into in this screwy world! All set? Let's go!"

Followed by Barger and Kindt, he set out toward the wrecked liner. The
going was rough, uncertain, over the great jagged meteors. They were
forced to leap from rock to rock, skirt huge meteorites. Small stones
rolled and slipped under their feet and once Barger fell through a
space between two of the dark ferrous rocks, was saved only by gripping
a projecting ledge, hanging on with torn hands until the others dragged
him up to safety.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sliding, stumbling over the rubble, Haller kept his gaze on the
_Cosmic_. The liner was badly battered, her nose crumpled as if she
had crashed on landing. Haller forged ahead grimly through the gray
half-light of the twilight zone that lay between darkside and sunside
of the mad little world. Past ship after ship they toiled, rusty
freighters, queer century-old exploring craft, gaunt skeletons of
vessels half-buried in the débris.

No signs of life were visible aboard the _Cosmic_ as they drew near.
Haller's face was a strained mask.

"Cap'n!" Barger paused, his gray-stubbled face drawn. "Look! Out there!"

Haller turned, staring, but there was nothing to be seen except the
shattered rocks, the desolate, silent ships.

"Well?" he said sharply. "What was it?"

"Thought I saw something moving over yonder," Barger muttered.
"Queer-looking figure that was human and still wasn't. Nerves, I guess,
or this damned shadowy light."

"Sure. Nerves." Haller moved ahead impatiently. What would he find
aboard the _Cosmic_? What had happened to those on the wrecked vessel?

The silent, dust-shrouded liner loomed above them, now. One of her
airlocks was curiously fused, blackened, and nearly twisted from its
massive hinges. Haller seized the flush-sunk ring bolt and, followed by
his companions, drew himself into the ship.

The _Cosmic's_ main saloon was a scene of desolation. The crash landing
had hurled furniture, bric-a-brac, luxurious decorations into a jumbled
heap. Amidst this shattered débris lay several gaunt skeletons, clad in
the uniform of the Trans-Jovian line.

"Funny!" Kindt muttered. "Look!" He pointed to the atomite guns
clutched in the bony hands. "Why guns?"

"Mutiny, maybe," Haller said with grim emphasis. "Common failing, it
seems! Let's go on!"

They moved along the companionway, toward the rear of the ship. Dark,
silent, there was something eerie about the deserted vessel. Like a
ghost ship, it seemed, a weird metal tomb. Already rust was beginning
to flake the walls, and a moldering smell of decomposition filled the
air. The footsteps of the three men echoed hollowly along the dank
corridors, and in the light of Barger's _astralux_ torch, grotesque
shadows slid along the walls. Death, decay, hung like a pall about the
_Cosmic_ and Haller, thinking of Fay, was a tight-lipped specter.

"Kind of gives me the creeps, this packet," Barger muttered. "We...."
He broke off, listening. "Did you hear something just then? Like soft
footsteps?"

"More nerves," Haller grunted. "Come on!"

Onward they went, examining staterooms, engine-rooms, galley. All at
once Haller began to realize that things were missing from the ship.
Here, a skeleton stripped of its garments; there, a bed minus its
mattress and covers; there, sections of wire, lighting equipment,
removed. Reaching the ship's storeholds, they found the shelves swept
bare of food.

"She's been cleaned out," Barger said hoarsely. "Looks like the
survivors took everything they might need, lit out for parts unknown."

"Maybe," Haller was doubtful. "But from the number of skeletons, there
weren't many survivors. And where'd they go?" A picture of Fay crossed
his mind as he spoke. Was hers one of these whitened, grinning skulls,
or had she been among those who for some reason had abandoned the
_Cosmic_? Memory of the girl's slender loveliness tortured him.

"Might's well go back," Kindt said uneasily. "I don't like this ship.
There's something damned wrong here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kindt's voice trailed off into silence. At one end of the storeroom
were several barrels, empty, their contents of wine having apparently
been used by the passengers of the _Cosmic_ on the trip out. And from
behind these barrels a faint, strange babbling sound came, as of a
mad delirious thing, haunted by fear. For just a second the voice
rose, shrill, eerie, then ceased abruptly as though choked to silence.
Listening, Haller felt the hair at the back of his neck stiffen. Then
he leaped forward, tugged the barrels aside. Deep in the shadows was a
small door. Muscles standing out in ridges, Haller ripped it open.

The space thus revealed was a small airlock, perhaps four feet square,
through which refuse was expelled. In its chamber two indistinct forms
were huddled. One was a girl, and the other a gray-bearded man, his
hand over his companion's mouth. As the door opened, the man plunged
forward, his face contorted in desperation, in frenzy, as if he had
determined to go down fighting. Catching sight of the spaceman,
however, a look of stunned disbelief crossed his countenance, his arms
dropped to his sides.

"Earthmen!" he croaked. "Earthmen!" Then something seemed to snap
within him and he began to sob like a weary child.

Haller paid scant heed to the man. Pale as a ghost, he stared at the
girl. Emaciated, she seemed feverish, but in spite of her changed
appearance, there was no mistaking that bronze hair, blue eyes, and
slender form. Haller felt as though he had swallowed a lump of lead.

"Fay!" he whispered. "Fay!"

The girl swayed to her feet, gazed at him a moment, then gave a queer
high laugh.

"But it's a dream," she said slowly. "I know it's another dream.
Because Steve is on Jupiter where there're houses, people." Abruptly
the girl's voice broke; her knees buckled and she collapsed in a heap
on the store-hold floor.

Haller picked the girl up, turned to Barger.

"Got to get her to the _Lodestar_," he snapped. "Needs food and water.
Here, you," rather abruptly he shook the bearded man, "what's this all
about?"

"About?" the man repeated dully. "We were hiding from Them. All the
other men went down fighting, and the women were taken prisoner. I
was unarmed and there wasn't any use fighting so many. This girl and
I ran down here to the hold, hid in the airlock. For weeks and weeks.
At first we could slip out and get food from the shelves but every day
They came and carried some away and now there isn't any more." His
voice trailed off into a senseless, tuneless crooning.

"They?" Haller shook him again. "Who're They?"

"Beasts, ghosts, devils." The man shuddered. "I don't know. They come
shining, shining through the darkness and their eyes...."

"Nuts," Barger said succinctly. "Help him, Kindt. I'll carry the girl,
Cap'n, long as you've got the gun. May need it if this guy's anywhere
near the truth."

"Right." With the heavy magnetized flashlight in one hand, the gun
in the other, Haller led the way from the hold, followed by Barger,
carrying Fay, and Kindt, aiding the bearded man. At the base of the
ladder leading to the main deck, Haller froze in his tracks. Above
them, in the cabin, the sound of running footsteps was audible along
with queer, inhuman voices. Others had boarded the wrecked _Cosmic_,
were rushing down the companionway!

"Quick!" Barger roared. "Get that door!"

Hardly had Barger's voice died away when there came a series of wild
howls, a thud of racing feet. The door leading from the upper deck
burst open and a score of nightmare figures leaped into the room.
Human, they were, yet at the same time, grim travesties on human
beings. Clad in rags, hair long and matted, beards streaked with filth,
they seemed the most degenerate, revolting dregs of mankind. More
beasts than men, they rushed forward with hoarse shouts of triumph.
What shook Haller more than anything else was the queer aura of light
that appeared to emanate from their bodies! The attackers were vaguely
phosphorescent!

With an effort Haller swung up the magnetized atomite gun, fired. The
blue bolt of energy tore through the ranks of the insane attackers
and three of them slumped to the floor, charred, blackened corpses.
Smoke and a stench of burnt flesh filled the storeroom. The maddened
figures also had ray guns; the bearded man who had been in hiding with
Fay toppled backward, torn by an atomite blast. Like hideous, human
wolves, the phosphorescent figures swept on, bearing Kindt and Barger
to the floor. As Haller's flash fell to the floor, shattered, the
greenish light from their bodies lit up the hold with a queer, eerie
luminescence.

Two of the wild-eyed specters plunged at Haller. The atomite gun
blasted one of them to bits, but the other's clutching, taloned hands
locked about his knees in mad fury, sent him reeling to the floor.
Haller's head banged against the steel plates, the gun fell from his
grip, and the gnarled, steely hands shifted from his knees to his
throat. Dazed, he tried to fight back, but found he was no match
for the other's inhuman strength. The distorted eldritch face, with
reddened eyes peering through a tangle of hair, began to blur before
his gaze, fire-flecked darkness slowly engulfed him. Faintly he could
hear Kindt and Barger making strangled, choking sounds, realized that
he was doing the same. No escape now, he realized. In another minute....

       *       *       *       *       *

A million miles away Steve Haller heard the deep guttural voice, and
miraculously the pressure on his windpipe ceased. As vision returned,
he could see a huge, scarred man with an embryonic degenerate face,
standing on the bottom step of the ladder. Vaguely glowing like the
others, he made a ghostly figure in the darkness.

"Let them live," he grunted. "We got things to find out." He bent,
dragged the dazed Kindt to his feet. "Which ship is yours?"

"The ... _Lodestar_," Kindt whispered through bruised lips. "She lies
over that way about a mile. The magnetism caught us."

"So." The big man's sub-human face expressed satisfaction. "More food
and fuel. This has been a good time, eh, Doul? First this liner with
food and women, now another ship and" ... he glanced at Fay's inert
form ... "another woman. Take six men with guns and see how strongly
this new arrival is held."

Watching the six repulsive figures depart, Haller felt suddenly sick.
The liner, the big man said, had furnished them with food and women.
Fay.... Weakly he swayed to his feet.

"What's this all about?" he demanded. "Who are you?"

"Castaways, or their children's children." The huge figure looked
spectral in the weird light that emanated from his skin. "No one leaves
the Island of Lost Spaceships. I'm Orth. My people were wrecked many
lifetimes ago, mated with the female passengers of the refugee ship,
_Transvalia_. We rule here." He motioned his savage followers forward.
"We will go now."

Half-strangled, throat aching, Haller felt himself seized by two of the
savage beings, dragged along with Kindt and Barger to the upper deck.
One of the phosphorescent figures had thrown Fay over his shoulder, was
carrying her like a sack of meal. Through the airlock they were forced
and out onto the rough, meteor-heaped surface of the planetoid.

"Haller! Look!" Barger turned toward the distant _Lodestar_; three
figures, hands raised, were emerging from the metal hull. "The yellow
rats! Not even putting up a scrap! They might have held the ship
indefinitely against these brutes!"

Orth, the semi-simian leader of these denizens of the asteroid, was
waving toward the band which had taken the _Lodestar_. These returned
across the rubbled plain shouting jubilantly, with their captives.
Carlson, Seltzsky, and Wallace were pale phantoms, cringing under the
blows that urged them forward. Joining forces, the two parties set out
across the rocky surface, led by the giant Orth.

Stumbling along between his captors, Haller found it hard to believe
that this was not some mad dream. A magnetic asteroid, an Isle of Lost
Spaceships, and humans who had degenerated into beasts. Covertly he
studied their guards. Most of them were unnaturally squat, bow-legged,
and were a startling example of how swiftly evolution can retrogress.
Millenniums of progress, all the civilization so painfully acquired
by man, had dropped from them. Faces crude and unintelligent, they
spoke in hoarse gutturals, hardly intelligible. And even here, in
the half-light of the plain, the uncanny green glow, like fox-fire,
hung about their forms. Living ghosts, they seemed, walking through a
twilight zone of death and desolation.

Over the rough terrain they led their captives, skirting crevasses,
craters, leaping sure-footedly from rock to rock. And on all sides lay
the battered hulks, looted of their food and cargoes by these strange
beings, left to rust away or be buried by new rains of meteors. The
barren melancholy of the scene pressed like leaden weights upon the
captured earthmen.

At a mound of huge meteors rising above the plain, Orth, the herculean
leader, turned. A narrow gap was visible between two great stones. Into
this he plunged, his faintly glowing body giving wan light.

"Caves," Kindt muttered, glancing about. "Some job, too. Wonder why
they didn't just live in the spaceships outside?"

Haller studied the passages. They had been made by removing loose
fragments of the meteors, and were clumsily shored up by plates and
girders from the wrecked ships. Enormous effort must have been required
to drag the steel supports across the surface of this magnetized world,
though perhaps by heating them it might have been possible. But why,
when the ships offered luxurious accommodations, was it necessary to
dig this rabbit-warren into the layer of meteors that covered the
surface?

Downward they went, the bodies of their captors lighting up the rocky
galleries. Now voices were audible ahead, the corridor was widening.
Rounding a bend in the passage, Haller drew a sudden sharp breath.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before them lay a vast cavern, crowded with bizarre figures. There
were at least half a hundred of the bearded savage men, their skin
giving off the greenish luminescence. Among them were four or five
less uncouth looking individuals, wearing the uniform of Trans-Jovian.
Some of the _Cosmic's_ crew, apparently, had joined the renegades.
What struck Haller, however, was the difference among the women. Some
were ragged, dirty creatures, almost as neanderthal in appearance as
the men, clutching ugly children to their breasts. But the other women
huddled in the cavern brought harsh lines to Haller's face. Earthwomen,
these, and of pure blood, some young, some approaching middle age, but
all with horror stamped upon their features.

As Orth and his men swaggered into the cavern, an admiring throng ran
to greet them.

"Another freighter caught in the field," he grunted. "More food aboard
her! No shortage, now! And a new woman for one of us!" He motioned
toward Fay, a wan, pale figure in the sickly glow that issued from her
captors' fetid bodies.

"For one of you!" Haller hardly recognized his own voice. For months he
had been a living robot, condemning himself for the girl's death, and
now that miraculously he had found her, she was to be claimed by one
of these degenerate sub-men! Suddenly all the pent-up emotion of those
long months burst its bonds; he felt himself surging forward, a red
mist before his eyes.

Lean and muscular as he was, Haller was no match for the mighty Orth.
A glowing hand shot out, gripped him, held him as helpless as a child.
And Barger, who had followed blindly at his heels, was seized by
another of the sub-men. The other four men of the _Lodestar's_ crew
made no move to join in the hopeless struggle and Haller, berserk,
cursed them in the worst language of six planets.

"Fools, these two," Orth grunted. "Take them away!"

Helpless in the grip of the green-glowing creatures, Haller and Barger
were dragged from the big cavern, along passages that wound deep into
the heap of meteoric stone. Here and there, in the weird light, they
could see other caves, apparently sleeping, living quarters, furnished
with equipment taken from stranded ships. Once again Haller found
himself wondering why these people buried themselves deep in the ground
when they might have lived aboard one of the big luxury liners. Then
thoughts of Fay crossed his mind again and he struggled vainly to be
free.

At the end of one of the passages a large tank, perhaps ten feet in
diameter, was sunk flush in the loose rubble. A circular iron plate in
its top, sucked down by the inexorable magnetism, required the combined
efforts of four of the sub-men to remove. The plate at last dragged
aside, they motioned their two captives forward. For just a moment
Haller hesitated, but with an atomite gun digging into his back, there
was no choice. Gripping the edge of the opening he lowered himself into
the tank. The drop of about six feet was jarring and he had just time
to move aside as Barger landed beside him. A moment later the glowing
sub-men had dragged the magnetized iron plate over the opening.

       *       *       *       *       *

The interior of the metal tank that served as their prison was dark,
except for a faint greenish fluorescence, like that which emanated
from the renegade earthmen, visible in one corner. Moving toward it,
Haller saw a copper vessel filled with water, apparently for the use of
prisoners.

"Barger!" he exclaimed. "That's why they give off that green light!
It's the water! Phosphorescent water! We've seen it on earth often,
caused by microscopic animal life! Only this is so full of the stuff
that by drinking it, a living person becomes phosphorescent also! Like
the deep-sea fish on earth! The human body's over eighty per cent
water, remember!"

"Interesting," the old quartermaster grunted, biting off a quid of blue
Jovian _tole_. "But hardly helpful." He spat noisily. "What next?"

Haller disregarded the question. "I'm beginning to get a clear picture
of this," he announced. "For millenniums this little asteroid drew
about it ferrous meteors. Then, two hundred years ago, man perfected
the spaceship. Since then, this has become the Isle of Lost Spaceships.
Hundreds of vessels, venturing too near, were caught in the field,
drawn down. I can imagine the men on the first ship, half-mad, starved,
before another was drawn down by the field, plundering the new arrivals
of their food and supplies, killing their crews. Orth mentioned the
_Transvalia_. She was the ship chartered by some fanatical religious
sect who were going to found a new world. Also, she had women aboard.
That was the start of this degenerate race. Two centuries of savagery,
piracy, and we've seen the result." He paused grimly. "They're strong
but stupid. That's our only chance. Also we haven't drunk any of this
water and aren't fluorescent. That means we've a good chance of getting
by unseen in these caves, once we get out of this tank."

"And then, I suppose," Barger grinned, "we build an aluminum spaceship
that isn't affected by magnetism and take off. Or do we thumb a ride on
a comet?"

By way of answer Haller commenced to examine their prison. A large
cylinder, of a bronze-like alloy, it had no openings except the one at
the top, covered by the steel plate.

"Thought this had a familiar look to it," he announced. "It's the fuel
tank of an old-style rocket-ship. Here! Climb up on my shoulders and
have a look at the top. Might be an intake valve or loose plate up
there. Can't see in this light."

"The optimist," Barger grunted. "Steady now! Ah! Wait'll I light a
match."

A match flared in the darkness above and Barger shook his head. "Not a
sign of an out up here," he muttered. "Looks like we're in storage for
keeps. We.... Look out!"

Barger leaped, and Haller fell in a heap upon the floor. Something
small, flaring white-hot, had dropped from the top of the tank, was
sputtering on the floor plates. A moment later it winked out, but where
it had lain, a small hole, the size of a man's finger, was visible.

"A hole!" Barger exclaimed. "Burnt right through the metal! What in
hell...."

"Don't you see?" A tight-lipped grin crossed Haller's face. "This was,
as I said, a fuel tank. Little drops of tri-oxine have dried on the
top, years ago when it was drained, and your match ignited one! When
you think how the toughest steel rocket tube linings burn through in
a year or less, it's no wonder this bronze alloy melts!" He snatched
up the jar of phosphorescent water, held it near the wall of the tank.
Here and there tiny brown globules were visible, dried rocket-fuel,
like sap on a tree's bark.

"Okay," said Barger, unimpressed. "But how are you going to hold it
against the top while it's burning through? Soon as it's lit, it
falls ... and I don't want to be beneath, thanks."

"What's wrong with the floor?" Haller was already scraping the bits of
dried fuel from the walls. "The whole top strata of this asteroid is
like a heap of stones. The small fragments we can lug into this tank
through the hole, and the big ones don't fit so close that we can't
squeeze between them! Get busy!"

Slowly from walls and roof they collected the bits of long-dried fuel.
A globule here, a flake there, it was painfully slow work. At the end
of an hour they had a double handful of the brown crystals.

"Enough for a try, anyhow," Haller muttered. "Let's see!" He arranged
the brown grains in a circle perhaps two feet in diameter. "Stand
clear! Here goes!"

A match flickered in the darkness, described a short arc as Haller
tossed it toward the circle. At once a ring of lurid fire flared up and
a searing gust of heat swept through the metal tank. For only a moment
it burned, then died away, leaving the floor plates around it a cherry
red. Barger, staring, gave a cry of triumph.

"Worked!" he exclaimed. "Burned through!" He poured a portion of the
phosphorescent water on the bronze, watched clouds of steam arise.

"Now the work starts!" Haller's grin was fierce. Kicking aside the
metal disc that had been melted from the floor, he peered into the
opening. Small stones, chunks of meteoric rock, lay beneath.

       *       *       *       *       *

Largely ferrous, the stones were caught in the grip of the asteroid's
magnetic core. It required the combined efforts of both men to lift
them through the opening into their prison. At the end of half an hour
they were drenched with sweat, and the hole beneath was only four feet
deep.

"No ... no use!" Old Barger panted. "We can go on like this
indefinitely. And if we try to tunnel sidewise it'll fall on us."

"But we ought to reach the big meteorites soon," Haller muttered.
"They'd have settled lower and will have open spaces between them.
And the sub-men have this place honeycombed with passages. If we hit
one...."

"About as much chance as a snowball on Mercury," the quartermaster
wheezed. "Hold the water jar near. I'm going to have a look."

Haller held the jar close to the opening so that its green glow faintly
illuminated the pit they had dug. Barger, his face red from exertion,
jumped into the excavation.

"Stones and more stones," he grunted. "Might dig the rest of our lives
before we struck anything. I...."

A rumble of rock, a smothered cry, and the grizzled quartermaster
disappeared from view!

"Barger!" Steve shouted. "What happened? Are you hurt?"

"Bruised up a bit." The answer echoed hollowly. "And I can't see where
I am!"

"Okay, sit tight." Haller knotted his belt to his leather jacket,
lowered the half-empty jug of phosphorescent water into the opening.
When Barger announced its safe arrival, he made one end of the
improvised rope fast, climbed down it.

In the faint green glow a hollow, between two immense meteorites, was
visible. Barger, dirty, disheveled, glanced about.

"The opening seems to run back aways," he announced. "Want to try it?"

"Right." Haller led the way, testing each step carefully. As they
moved on, the tunnel narrowed, and they were forced to crawl. Haller,
creeping under the overhang of a huge stone, felt like an ant moving
through the spaces in a mound of cannon-balls. Now they were forced to
dig again, dragging aside the magnetized rocks, holding their breaths
for fear of a cave-in. They had made their way perhaps a hundred feet
when Haller pulled up short. His hands had encountered something
smooth, cold!

"Metal!" he exclaimed. "Wait!" Quickly he raised the vessel of luminous
water. Before them, buried beneath massive rocks, was a rusty, ancient
spaceship!

"Lord!" Barger stared at the archaic forward rocket tubes. "The great
grand-daddy of all spaceships!" He pointed to a gaping crack in the
battered hull. "Let's see what's inside!"

Squeezing through the crack, they found themselves in a dusty,
old-fashioned cabin. Two skeletons lay sprawled upon the floor,
moldering clothes hanging on their bones. Haller picked up a yellowed
book, studied the all but illegible writing. "... caught on the barren
sargasso-like world. Magnetism holding us here. Radio blanketed, last
food eaten three days ago. No hope. Jameson died today. Too weak to
write more. Donovan closing this log. July 17, 1994."

"Poor devils!" Haller muttered. "But," ... he thought of their savage
captors, of Fay, and his face hardened ... "maybe they were lucky!
Nineteen-ninety-four! That'd be before Orth's forefathers, before the
_Transvalia_! No wonder it's been completely covered by meteors!"

Barger, poking about the cabin, suddenly gave a grunt, came up with two
L-shaped black objects.

"Guns!" he exclaimed. "Old-time lead-throwers! But they'd be better
than nothing!"

Rather curiously Haller examined the weapons. Scraping dried oil from
the mechanism, he thrust one into his belt.

"May help," he murmured. "If we ever get out of here. Maybe if there's
any fuel left, we may blast our way through to one of the caves."
Haller moved to the rear of the ship, studied the rusty engines. The
fuel tanks were empty, every drop apparently having been used in a vain
effort to break the magnetic grip.

"Nothing here," he muttered. "Dead end. Might as well go back and try
these lead throwers on our guards when ... and if ... they open the top
of that tank. Unless ..." Suddenly Haller broke off, leaning forward,
face intent. Very dimly, far away, the sound of hoarse, shouting voices
was audible!

"Orth and his gang!" Barger muttered. "But it's not coming from the
passage we made! Seems to be in that direction!" He motioned toward the
rubble behind the ancient ship.

"We're near one of their caves!" Haller leaped toward the rear rocket
tubes, forced open a massive breech-block. "Come on!"

Into the big exhaust tube he dove, crawling through it as though it had
been a drain pipe.

"Take the rocks as I pass them back," he ordered. Then, chuckling
grimly, "Makes you feel like Dante's tunneling under the Chateau D'If.
Here comes a big one!" He shoved a chunk of meteor back along the tube.

The heap of stones in the old engine room had grown large when Haller
saw the light ahead. A pale trickle of illumination, it filtered
through the loose rocks. Haller wormed his way nearer, peered through
the opening ... and his face went gray.

       *       *       *       *       *

A cave, its brilliant lights dimming the glow of luminous bodies,
lay before them. Well furnished from looted ships, auxiliary engines
from some plundered liner, run by rocket fuel, supplied electricity
to power the great arc lights that hung from the ceiling. One entire
end of the room was an Aladdin's cave of treasures. Bars of gold, from
the mines of Saturn, stacked in towering heaps ... leaden chests of
radium, uranium, polonium, a nation's ransom of the stuff for which
men died in the great fields of Venus ... and jewels, huge Martian
rubies, big as pigeon's eggs, flame-colored _karnites_ of Io, even the
rare _crystolex_ that collects, absorbs, light, until it gives off a
diffused pink aura. Loot of a hundred vessels that had met their doom
on this Island of Lost Spaceships, utterly worthless on the barren
asteroid, yet hoarded because of the legend that they were prized on
other worlds, because lure of treasure lingered in the savage minds of
the sub-men.

Incalculable as was this treasure, Haller gave it but a passing glance.
His gaze was fixed on the glowing, hideous figures grouped about
the cave. With them were Carlson, Seltzsky, Wallace, and Kindt ...
renegades, joining these inhuman brutes, fearing the consequences of
refusal. In the center of the cave stood Orth, a gigantic, semi-simian
figure, his herculean body shining like a cat's eye, and beside him
stood Fay. All the joyousness, the gayety, the beauty, that had
bedeviled Haller's memories, were gone from the girl. Pale, emaciated,
worn by constant fear, she seemed scarcely aware of her surroundings,
stood there like a sleepwalker.

"I claim the new woman!" Orth boomed, his guttural voice echoing
through the cavern. "Does anyone dispute it?"

For a long moment there was silence, then a repulsive, embryonic
creature, nearly as big as the leader, stepped forward.

"You have another woman!" he growled. "I claim this one!"

A roar went up from the sub-men. "Let strength decide! Fight!"

Orth grinned, advanced toward the center of the cave to meet his
opponent. Unarmed, barehanded, they circled one another, uttering
strange animal-like sounds. All at once the second claimant hurtled
forward, taloned fingers clutching for Orth's eyes. He risked all in
that one frenzied charge but the leader of the sub-men saw it coming,
moved his head. The claw-like fingers raked his cheek, drawing blood,
but missed his eyes. In that instant Orth sprang to the attack. Seizing
his opponent about the waist, he lifted him high with one titanic burst
of energy, slammed him to the rocky floor. There was a sharp, sickening
crack, and the man lay still.

"So!" Orth roared. "Do any others claim the new woman? I, Orth...."

Which was as far as he got. An ancient pistol roared, filling the cave
with noise and the glowing giant spun about twice, toppled to the
floor. Before the stunned sub-men could recover from their surprise,
there was a rumbling of dirt and stone, and a section of the cavern's
wall gave way in a cloud of dust. Two wild-eyed figures, torn, ragged,
furious, their archaic weapons gleaming in the phosphorescent light,
sprang through the opening!

       *       *       *       *       *

The first thirty seconds of the attack on the sub-men was sheer
delirium. Above the roar of the old pistols came howls of rage, of
pain, and a momentary panic sent the phosphorescent beings back in
confusion. Powder smoke mingled with the clouds of dust, the stench of
unclean bodies tainted the air.

"Fay!" Steve seized the stunned girl, half-carried her to a corridor
leading from the cave. "Keep 'em busy, Barger!"

The old quartermaster was firing steadily into the packed mass of
howling brutes. By the time he and Haller had reached the corridor,
however, both automatics were empty. Barger hurled his empty weapon at
a hulking, ungainly figure, leaped for the passage.

"Got to run for it!" he choked. "They won't use their atomite guns!
They want Fay alive! Come on!"

Then they were racing through the shadowy corridors, invisible in the
darkness. Their pursuers, however, shining shapes in the gloom, were
easily seen.

"If only we had a gun!" Barger groaned. "What targets they make!"

Carrying Fay, Haller hadn't the breath to reply. Onward they stumbled,
through a maze of corridors, with no notion of direction. The green
forms were gaining rapidly, their feet thudding on the stone floor.

Onward the fugitives plunged, through great caves, winding passages.
Once they swept through a grotto in which a dozen of the ugly sub-women
were gathered, but before the shrill-voiced creatures could attack
them, they had reached a rocky gallery beyond. Haller forced himself
on, heart pounding. In spite of the dank chill of the caverns he was
bathed in sweat; beside him old Barger was wheezing noisily, gasping.

With all their effort, however, the glowing monstrosities were gaining
rapidly. Haller cast a furtive glance over his shoulder, saw a squat
figure only a step behind him, and beside the sub-man raced Kindt.
Kindt, turned renegade! Carlson and the others didn't surprise him;
scum of the space-ports, they were hardly above the inhabitants of the
asteroid. But Kindt had seemed different.

The squat green figure, face set in a savage grin, increased his speed.
In another moment his clutching hand must seize Steve, drag him down.
Suddenly Haller heard the strangled shout:

"Cap'n! Go on! Quick!"

One backward glance Steve had, of Kindt throwing his weight against the
foremost pursuer. Down they went in a tangled heap, blocking the narrow
passage, and the others fell over them. Then an atomite gun flared blue
in the darkness and Kindt's shouts abruptly ceased.

"A right guy," Barger panted. "Plenty right. And I thought he was
yellow! We.... Look! Light!"

Far ahead feeble sunlight gleamed, and the passage slanted upward. The
sub-men had resumed the pursuit, but it was evident that they couldn't
make up the lost distance before their prey reached the surface of the
little world. But even though free of the caverns, the three fugitives
could never hope to reach the _Lodestar_ without being overtaken. Even
if they did reach it, the ship could not break the magnetic grip.

"No ... no use, Steve!" Fay whispered. "They're bound to get us in the
end! Join them, let me go! It's your only chance!"

"Forget it!" he gasped. "Food and water on _Lodestar_! Can stand seige
for months once we reach it! Come on!"

The mouth of the passage was only a few feet away, now. Behind them the
howling phosphorescent figures were closing in swiftly. All at once
Barger, in the lead, gave a cry, pointed through the passage entrance.
In the dark sky high above, something huge, glowing, was exploding into
a rain of white-hot dots.

"Meteors!" he shouted. "A big one's broken up, and the magnetism is
pulling the pieces this way! There'll be hell out there in a moment!"

"Got to risk it!" Steve took one glance at the onrushing sub-men,
leaped through the opening. "Come on!"

Hardly a dozen steps had they taken when the storm broke. Easy
to understand now, why the pirates of the asteroid had burrowed
underground for their dwellings. The meteor storm was a rain of death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Screaming through the thin atmosphere, white-hot from the explosion,
the first great stone struck the asteroid. The ground shook as if from
an earthquake, a shower of shattered rock rose in a deadly spray.
Now another, and another, in a terrifying cosmic bombardment. Fiery
missiles, hurtling from the heavens, tearing great gaps in the rough
terrain.

Staggering over the heaving, shifting bed of stone, Haller felt as
though he were in an inferno. The heat was overpowering, on all sides
the ground was churned like a twentieth-century battlefield. Blinding
light, the shriek of descending meteors, the earth-shaking roar and
rumble as they struck. Barger glanced back; the sub-men were huddled in
the entrance of their caverns, shouting with rage, yet not daring to go
out.

"Free of them for the time being!" Barger shouted to make himself heard
above the roar. "But if one of these chunks of rock hits us...."

Haller, supporting the girl, nodded grimly, plodded on. The rain of
meteors was at its height now, and the entire plain seemed to be
exploding. A great liner, lying ahead, disappeared in a shower of
débris as a great stone struck it; another, beside it, was completely
buried under the rubble and wreckage. A scene of sheer horror, the
plain, shrouded in dust, lit by incessant flashes of light, the loose
stones of its surface sliding and rumbling with each new shock. As
the three fugitives reeled onward, one of the missiles landed nearby
in a blinding flash, a gust of heat. Hurled to the ground, Haller was
half-buried by a hail of splintered stone. Blindly, groggily, he picked
himself up, pulled Fay to her feet, and, aided by the bruised and
bloody Barger, pushed on.

[Illustration: _Staggering over the heaving, shifting bed of
stone, Haller felt as though he were in an inferno. The heat was
overpowering._]

With startling suddenness the storm of meteors ceased. Two or three
belated thuds, and there was only the pall of dust, the wrecked
spaceships, the great craters, to mark its path.

"Short and sweet," Barger grunted. "You don't carry a rabbit's foot,
do you, Cap'n? How we ever got through that barrage alive!" He glanced
back. Luminous figures were streaming from the caverns. "Here come our
boy-friends, hell-bent!"

Haller peered through the swirling dust. The stumpy, battered shape of
the _Lodestar_ was visible not a hundred yards ahead.

"You see, Fay?" he laughed jubilantly. "She's not much of a ship but
her hull's tough enough to hold off atomite guns and we've food enough
for months. Maybe by that time we can figure out a way to break the
magnetic grip!"

She nodded, the color returning to her cheeks, quickened her pace.
Behind them faint shouts of rage were audible, and a few blue bolts
of energy tore up the rocks nearby. The distance was too great for
accurate shooting; and a moment later the three fugitives had swung
into the freighter's airlock.

"So!" Haller wiped a paste of sweat and dust from his forehead.
"Barger, see that all ports are secure. Replace that smashed one in the
control room with a spare from the stores. We're in for a seige!"

As Barger made fast the heavy glassex ports, Haller and the girl closed
the massive lock. Howls of rage from outside announced the presence of
their pursuers. A moment later several spots on the steel hull glowed
red under atomite blasts.

"Let 'em have their fun," Haller grinned. "There's not enough juice
in their guns to melt the steel, and as long as we keep away from
the outer walls, we don't get burned! Right now the one thing that
interests me is a sandwich and...."

"Cap'n!" Old Barger rattled down the companionway steps, his face gray.
"Big guns! Look!"

Steve whirled, glanced through one of the ports. From a wrecked
space-cruiser about half a mile away the sub-men were laboriously
dragging a gleaming mass of copper and glass tubes. A heavy heat-gun,
designed to destroy armored warships. The little _Lodestar_ could have
no chance of withstanding its blast. Bestial ape-like figures were
setting it up to cover the vessel's bow, while another group were
dragging a second heavy projector around to play upon the stern.

"Sixteen-power projectors!" Fay whispered. "Oh, Steve, isn't there
anything we can do? To have come through so much ... and now...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Haller was silent, and his face took on the old living robot look.
No escape! If only the dragging magnetism didn't hold them down! It
would have been so simple to open the rockets, leap skyward. But the
invisible field held them like a vise, as it had held so many helpless
vessels on this Island of Lost Spaceships, never to leave!

A roar from the sub-men sounded outside. Beams of dazzling blue light
had burst from the two projectors, had caught the ship in their focus,
until it was like a bit of steel in the middle of a spark-gap. Heat ...
searing, unbearable heat, swept the cabin.

"They're turning on the juice slowly," Barger muttered through clenched
teeth. "Full power would blast the ship to atoms, but they're trying
to force us to surrender! They don't want to destroy the food we got
aboard!"

Haller nodded grimly. The heat within the cabin was becoming unbearable
now, and the walls were beginning to turn a dull red. He shot a glance
at Fay; paper-white, face drawn, the girl was gasping for breath. The
veins in old Barger's neck were beginning to stand out apoplectically.

"Lie down!" Haller whispered. "Cooler ... on floor!"

"What's use!" the quartermaster gasped.

Moment by moment the heat increased. The dull red of the hull was
beginning to creep along the floorplates, until they were searing to
the touch. Outside the howling of the sub-men was vulpine, frenzied, in
mad triumph. Barger groaned, writhing in agony.

"Can't stand it!" he choked. "Being roasted alive!"

Fay turned tortured eyes toward Haller, touched his hand.

"Good fight, Steve!" she whispered. "Shame it has to end like this!
Pray that ... fuel tanks blow up, end it quickly! I ... I...." She fell
back, unconscious.

"Fuel tanks...." Haller repeated dully. There was something in his mind
but he couldn't think. So hot. Hell--living hell. That something in his
mind! Heat ... magnetism ... no escape.

"Magnetism ... heat...." Drunkenly Haller lurched to his feet. "Barger!
Barger!" He dragged the groaning spaceman erect. "Heat destroys
magnetism! You see? The bulk of the ship's interior bulkheads are
aluminum alloy for lightness! It was the steel hull that dragged us
down! And now it's hot ... red hot! No magnetism! Get down to those
motors!"

Half-conscious Barger stumbled down to the engine-room. Haller reeled
toward the controls. Everything was spinning before his gaze, the red
glare from the searing hull plates dazzled him. Heat! Unbelievable
heat ... killing heat! An ant in an oven! Hair singed, hands blistered,
he tugged at the rocket switch. Every movement was torture, the hot air
tore at his lungs. Frantically he jerked the switch. Why didn't they
start?

       *       *       *       *       *

The sudden roar of the rockets was like a roar of triumph. But though
the red-hot hull of the _Lodestar_ was now non-magnetic, the engines
were still in the grip of the field. The ship ground forward, but did
not rise. Desperately Haller opened the jets wide, and slowly the
vessel began to climb, gathering speed with each second. Suddenly, as
though breaking invisible bonds that had held her, the little ship,
glowing like a furnace, leaped toward open space. With a weary sigh
Haller slumped over the controls, out, but anything but cold.

They were heading in the general direction of Vega when Barger
staggered into the control room, swung the _Lodestar_ back toward Mars.
Fay bent over Haller, pressed a damp cloth to his face.

"O ... okay!" he muttered. "Are we clear?"

"Away clean as a whistle," the quartermaster grinned, caressing
blistered hands. "And here's hoping I never see the Isle o' Lost
Spaceships again!"

Haller lurched to his feet, one arm about the girl's shoulders.

"Aren't you coming along, then?" he laughed. "I haven't forgotten that
crack you made about an aluminum, non-magnetic spaceship, and as soon
as we reach Mars I'm going to organize a company, have one built! We'll
take a well-armed expedition and have a go at that treasure the sub-men
had in their caves. After all, a man needs money when" ... he glanced
at the girl beside him ... "when he's going to get married! I'll need
you on an expedition like that, Barger. Think of the fortune in that
cave! Millions and millions! How about it?"

The old quartermaster shifted his quid to the other cheek, grinned.

"You could talk the devil into installing air-conditioning," he
chuckled. "I'll go!"





End of Project Gutenberg's Sargasso of the Stars, by Frederic A. Kummer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SARGASSO OF THE STARS ***

***** This file should be named 61958-8.txt or 61958-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/9/5/61958/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
