The Project Gutenberg EBook of "Shadrach", by Nelson S. Bond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: "Shadrach"

Author: Nelson S. Bond

Release Date: April 29, 2020 [EBook #61976]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK "SHADRACH" ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              "SHADRACH"

                           By NELSON S. BOND

                 Once, in Bible times, three men were
                 cast into a fiery furnace--and lived!
                Now, on far-off, frozen Titania, three
                   space-bitten Shadrachs faced the
                      same awful test of godship.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The man at the end of the bar was very drunk. That was not, in itself,
unusual. Xuerl's Cosmobar, dangling like a leech on the drab outskirts
of Mars Central, did not cater to a select clientele. It was not noted
for its culture or gentility; it was famed from one end of the System
to another as a place where a hard-fisted, full-pursed spaceman, newly
in from the mines or out from Earth, could get a weapon or a wench, a
bottle or a battle, any or all with equal celerity. And at an instant's
notice.

But the man at the end of the bar was very drunk. So drunk, indeed,
that he seemed neither to notice nor to be concerned about the actions
of his comrades. And they, Chip Warren thought as he watched the bleary
man pour yet another jigger of green from a malevolently gleaming
bottle of _lisk_, were a particularly evil-looking and ill-assorted
lot. Even for a dive like this.

"A Venusian," he mused, "a greenie, a runt--and an Earthman. Like bugs
in a rug...."

"Trink?" piped a thin, reedy voice at Chip's elbow. "Trink, ssor?"

Chip shook his head in reply to the Martian barman's query. Damned
chrysanthemum! he thought. Damned squeaking, upright chrysanthemum! He
would never, so long as he lived, get used to hearing English speech
emanating from the curled petals that served as a Redlander's head.
Martians tried to look like Earthlings. They braced their soft, pallid
bodies in steel uprights, they underwent serious and probably painful
operations to give themselves a humanoid appearance, but they still
looked--and always would to Chip--like ungainly flowers of madness.

"No," he said. "Not just now, thanks. Later." He returned his gaze to
the group at the end of the bar. A new member had joined the quartet.
Another Earthman. Warren's eyes became more speculative as the newcomer
drew the Jovian aside, queried him briefly, then moved to the drunken
man's shoulder.

"Trink?" piped the persistent voice of the barman.

"Blast jets!" said Chip curtly. "I'll order when I get damn good
and--_hey!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

The gasp broke unbidden from his lips. In the din and confusion of
Xuerl's Cosmobar it went unnoticed, even as had gone unnoticed by
everyone else the momentary byplay he had glimpsed.

As the newcomer slipped his arm about the drunken man's shoulder, the
first Earthman, turning suddenly, dropped from his hand to the floor
a previously concealed _something_. A silvery, glistening, round
_something_ that hit the floor--and bounced!

Four figures reacted immediately, violently, eagerly. The Venusian, the
Uranian, the Jovian--like four minds with but a single thought they
formed a wall of flesh around the drunken one. The other Earthman's
hand leaped out greedily to catch the bouncing blob on the rebound. But
in vain. The drunk had retrieved the object, shoved it into a pocket.

But Chip Warren knew what the object was. It was a ball of ekalastron!

Ekalastron! Most recently discovered, rarest, and most precious of
all metals known to man! A metal so unique that up to the time of its
discovery there had been no place for it in man's supposedly "complete"
periodic table.

A metal that, defying man's previous deliberations on the habits of
metals, supplied man with the most valuable servant he had ever known.
A metal so light that a child could carry enough in one hand to coat
the entire hull of a space-cruiser--yet so adamant that a gossamer
film of it would deflect the impact of a meteoride or the battering
crush of a rotor-gun shell! A metal strong enough to grind diamonds to
powder--but so resilient that, when molded and properly treated, it
would bounce like a rubber ball!

In all the wide universe, hungry mankind had found less than two tons
of this vitally precious new metal. An ounce was worth a prince's
ransom; so jealously was each gram weighed, guarded and distributed
that the U.S.C.--Universal Science Council--could account for every
known ounce of it. Yet here, in the noisy bar of Mars' most infamous
refuge for scoundrels, a drunken miner toyed with a chunk the size of a
billiard ball!

If Chip Warren's attention had previously been attracted by the
oddly-assorted quintet, it was riveted now. Fierce curiosity hunched
him forward. Abandoning all shame at eavesdropping, he strained eyes
and ears upon the group.

It was well that he did so. Otherwise he would not have seen the
sober Earthman's gesture to the bartender, the bartender's furtive
acquiescence, the tentacular hand opening a colorless phial, pouring
its contents into the miner's bottle of _lisk_. There would have been
no one to protect the drunken man from the drug that would swiftly have
left him at the mercy of his companions.

But Chip was watching. And moving on raw instinct, without a thought
for the consequences, he surged forward. His arm brushed the surprised
Uranian aside, his hand thrust just in time to sweep the doped drink
from the miner's lips. Glass shattered on the floor, singing a shrill
song. Chip's challenging voice echoed its brittle crispness.

"Hold course a minute, buckoes!" he ordered. "What in space goes on
around here?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chip thought afterward that never in his life had he ever looked upon
such stark, forbidding coldness as that which, in the next moment,
flamed upon him from the eyes of the newly arrived Earthman.

Everything about the man was cold, bitter and bleak as the hostile
depths of space. His eyes were glacier-gray, his lips thin and
bloodless as hoarfrost; the hand he shoved forward to grip Chip's wrist
in steely grasp was like ice.

The coldness of death was in his voice, although he spoke with infinite
quietude.

"I might ask the same of you, sailor." The man had raven-black hair
save where, from a widow's peak, one single swatch of pure white sprang
startlingly to lie like a stream of ice between dark banks. "By what
right do you intrude on a private party?"

Chip shook the man's hand from his wrist. His eyes parried with hot
defiance the stranger's frigid calm.

"By the right of any man," he growled, "to see fair play! I saw--"

"A moment, sailor!" The man's voice was like a low note struck in
warning. "Before you tell what you saw, you might like to know who I
am. My name is Blaze Amborg."

"I don't give a portside blast," snarled Chip, "if your name is Lucifer
himself. I saw--"

"You haven't been out here long, have you, sailor? Well--that's your
misfortune, I fear. Torth!"

He inclined his head gently toward the giant Venusian. The big man
rolled forward. His hamlike paws reached for Chip. But fast as he
moved, Chip moved faster still; in the split of a second his hand had
found his belt. The dull lights of the Cosmobar glinted sallowly on
metal that prodded Amborg's middle.

"So that's the way it is, eh?" gritted Chip. "Your bullies do your
fighting for you? Well, maybe you're right. I haven't been out here
long. But where I come from, men do their own scrapping. Now--tell
these scum of yours to keep their distance, or by the Seven Sacred
Stars, I'll let ether through you!"

A man could not tell by studying Amborg's features if his lips were
white with fear or what. But the ice in his eyes was deeper, more
shadowy. And he said, "Back, Torth!"

"That's better!" approved Chip. "And now--come out of it, you!" The
drunken man had finally slipped out of the picture. Blissfully unaware
of what was going on about him, his head had slumped to the bar.
He was asleep, lips loosely agape, breath coming in sodden grunts.
Chip grasped the nape of his neck, shook him roughly. "Pull yourself
together!" he commanded. "We're getting out of here!"

The man came to with a start, stared at Chip Warren blearily.
"W-whuzzup? Whuzzmatter? Don' shake me like that, ole boy. All pals
t'gether. All good ole pals...."

His head dropped forward again, and Chip sighed. It was like kicking
a pup, he thought, but it had to be done. His rousing slap jarred the
drunk to grieved awareness.

"Hey! _Don'_ do that! We're pals, ain't we? All--"

"I wouldn't know about that," snorted Chip. "But I _do_ know these
other 'pals' of yours are getting ready to dig you for that--that stuff
in your pocket."

       *       *       *       *       *

That did it. The warning drove its way through the miner's stupor. His
head jerked up, his eyes widened, and a hand clawed at his pocket.

"_What?_ My ekalastron? The filthy thieves--!"

His loud voice carried throughout the room clearly. Too clearly. For
with a sudden fear, Chip could feel a tension tighten through the hard
habitues of the bar. Nervous scrapings of feet, the _frou-frou_ of
suddenly intense voices. "Ekalastron! Eka--"

For a moment, Chip's guard relaxed. He twisted his head to survey a new
and potent danger. And as he did so, a sharp cry burst from Amborg's
lips. "Raat 'Aran! Torth!"

Chip whirled back to face immediate trouble. Shapes were plunging
down upon him. He wheeled, slipped, tumbled to one side even as
the scorching burst of a needle gun seared a hissing path past his
shoulder. Someone behind screamed a high, thin scream that died in a
choked gurgle....

Then all was madness! The magic word "ekalastron" had wakened the
riches-lust of the mob; now the presence of death had roused its
blood-lust. In the space of a moment's time, a score of guns were
drawn and wildly flaming as the throng charged the bar.

Chip only lived in that moment because he lay helplessly asprawl upon
the floor. The hobnailed boots of miners kicked and trampled him, thick
bodies struggled, cursed and groaned above him. Once as he tried to
scramble to his feet his hand slipped nauseatingly in a pool of freshly
spilled and steaming blood.

He was aware that somewhere in the howling mob that fought, not knowing
why, and fighting died, the glacier-eyed Amborg strained for sight of
him. But the tide of conflict, sweeping over and about them, separated
them.

There came a reedy cry in the voice of the Martian barman; the lights
went out suddenly, and the room was alive and spiteful with the flames
of criss-crossing fire-needles. A questing hand found Chip's throat
in the darkness, fingers tightened. But in a flash of fire, Chip saw
the figure atop him suddenly crumple, steel clattered aimlessly beside
him as his assailant choked and died. Thus close to him walked mad,
unreasoning Death.

But he was on his feet again, now, and armed! Chip forced his way
toward that spot at the bar where last he had glimpsed the drunken
miner. No figure stood there, but his feet stumbled against a yielding
body. He stooped--then he blinked as the lights suddenly flared on
again.

He looked upon a frightful scene of carnage. Where men had fought, a
dozen bodies lay upon the floor like broken things; elsewhere about the
room a dozen struggling piles of life, human and humanoid, white, coral
and green, Earthborn and spawn of a dozen globes, still fought their
purposeless battle. And at the far side of the room--

Amborg!

But Amborg had seen him first. Even as he raised his needle-gun, Chip
realized the dousing of the lights, the sudden return of them, had been
a trick of Amborg's to gain advantage. The other man had the drop on
him ... even now his hand was tightening on the press.

And then, miraculously--

"Hold!" cried a thunderous voice. "'Stay now thine hand from the sword,
yea, loose not thine arrow from the bow--else by My might shall I crush
thee to the dust, truly My lightnings shall wither thee with fire!'
Thus saith my Lord God which is Jehovah!"

A vast, awed silence fell suddenly upon the room, a paralysis seized
all forms and held them motionless. Amborg stayed his finger. All eyes
sought the doorway. And there, covering the whole of the Cosmobar with
the ugliest but most efficient looking piece of private ordnance Chip
had seen in his life, stood a man. A tall, gangling scarecrow garbed in
rusty black; a lean-jawed, hawk-eyed man with tumbling locks of silver
and blazing eyes.

A whisper arose from men's lips. A whisper at once respectful
and--fearful.

"It's Salvation! Salvation Smith!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For a long, dramatic moment the ol man stood there in the doorway;
then, satisfied that all motion had stopped, he stepped forward into
the room. Chip knew, now, who--and what--he was. "Salvation" Smith,
sin-driving missionary of the Wastelands, was a legendary, almost
fabulous, figure of the Martian scene.

A devoutly religious man with the heart and soul of a pioneer, he had
taken upon himself the mission of carrying to the savage outland tribes
the story of the God he worshipped. That this God was Him of the Old
Testament, a God of wrath and vengeance, fire and flame, was evidenced
by those methods Salvation sometimes employed to make his message
acceptable to uncivilized breasts. In addition to being the most pious
man on Mars, Salvation was also reputed to be the best shot!

Earth's softhanded ecclesiastics did not altogether approve of their
wayward missionary's reputation, but had to concede that he, working
unaided and alone, had done more to bring the light to Mars than the
rest of their emissaries as a group.

Thus Salvation Smith, who stared now at the corpses on the floor and
muttered beneath his breath a prayer so hot and violent as to be almost
blasphemous.

There came a shrill bleat, and Xuerl, proprietor of the infamous
Cosmobar, minced across the floor, grotesque in the rigid habiliments
that lent him a humanoid shape.

"Sssalvation," he pleaded, "Thisss wasss none of my doing, sssir! I
have kept the peace, as I promisssed--"

"Silence!" roared the old man, and frowned. "Your foul den is a stench
in the nostrils of Heaven. I am tiring swiftly of your iniquitous ways,
Xuerl! One day I--shall--who started this, anyway?" he demanded.

"Thisss man!" Xuerl pointed a quavering tentacle at Chip. Salvation
gazed at the young man sternly.

"You are new around here. What is your name?"

"Chip Warren. I'm just out from Earth a week or so ago. Free-lance
prospector. But--but I didn't start this, sir. I merely interfered when
that man and his thugs tried to steal a ball of ekalastron from this
dead miner--"

Chip paused suddenly, staring at the drunken miner.

"But he's still alive! I thought--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Salvation was at his side in an instant. They both kneeled beside the
miner, whose eyes had flickered open. He was no longer influenced by
drink. His eyes were clear with prevision of a longer flight than
he had ever known. For a moment he struggled for breath. There was
recognition in his feeble tones.

"S-salvation--"

"Peace, my son. We will take you to a hospital."

"N-never mind that, Padre. It's too late. But the ekalastron--"

"You stole it, my son? You wish to confess?"

"N-no, Padre! Not stolen. I found it. A mine--" His breath was coming
in tiny, tortured gasps; he spoke more swiftly as if aware that he must
tell his secret ere silence claim him. "Danger ... on Titania! The
caves ... natives ... and the furnace of flame ... beware!"

"But _he_ survived!" Chip burst in. "He got some and returned. Ask him
how, Padre!"

The miner's head moved slightly as if to signify he understood the
query, but even as his lips moved to frame an answer, a swift, cold
shadow frosted his eyes with glaze. A moment later his breath stopped.
Then it shuddered back as with a violent effort the dying man dragged
himself back from death itself. A convulsion shook him. He cried weakly
the single word:

"_Shadrach!_"

Then a blood-specked spume gushed from his lips and he lay still. "May
the Lord have mercy on his soul!" begged Salvation Smith. He pushed
Chip gently away, fumbled at the dead man's clothing, arranging it more
neatly, then rose.

"He is gone," he told the spellbound assembly. "He is gone, bearing
with him to the world beyond the secret for which you jackals strove.
Thus be it, O Lord God of Hosts!"

But one man did not accept this as final. That man was Blaze Amborg
who, bolstered now by his hard-bitten group of outlaws, strode forward
belligerently.

"Not so fast, psalm-singer! He and I were partners. Anything he had
belongs to _me_ now!" He bent over and with a jerk disarranged the
clothing Salvation had smoothed. "And by the Comet, I'm going to have
it--" His hands moved with deft assurance, then with tense, hardening
suspicion. "It's gone!" He wheeled to face Chip. "You stole it! You--"

But the old missionary barred his rush with a steel forearm. "Slowly,
my friend! What is gone?"

"The ball of ekalastron! It's worth a fortune, and it's mine! This
snoopy young thief--"

Salvation turned to Chip sternly. "Well, young man--is this true? Did
you steal it? If so--"

"I didn't. I swear I didn't!"

"He was bending over Jenkins," Amborg raged, "when the lights went on.
He's got it! Let me at him!"

"There has been sufficient violence!" snapped Salvation Smith. He
turned to Chip. "Young man, I order you to let your accuser search
you. If you are truly innocent, you will not demur. If you refuse--"
He shifted his rifle from one horny palm to another significantly.
"Justice shall prevail!"

"Very well!" said Chip. He submitted himself to Amborg's triumphant
search. His flesh ran cold at the feel of the man's icy fingers, and
a dull resentment suffused him--but he got his reward in the look of
bafflement that grew on Amborg's face as it became clear that the
missing sphere was not on his person. "Are you satisfied now?" he
demanded.

Amborg's normally pale face was whiter still with impotent fury; his
eyes flamed with hatred. "It's not _on_ you," he admitted. "But I know
you took it. You've hidden it somewhere. I'm not through with you yet,
sailor! I'll have that metal or--"

"There will be no 'or'!" proclaimed Salvation Smith stridently. "The
lad has passed the test and proven himself guiltless; the case is
closed. He will walk from this place unharmed--in my company! 'The true
man shall suffer no hurt, neither shall the righteous fail.' Come, my
son!"

And he lifted his gun. Blaze Amborg's lips thinned to a hard, white
line. But he made no reckless move as the two men stalked silently
from the room....


                                  II

The Martian night was clear and cold. Its thin air was sweetly welcome
to Chip's nostrils. When they gained the street outside, Salvation
spoke to him suddenly. "Where is your ship, my son?"

"Ship, sir?" queried Warren. "But why--?"

"Don't waste time!" snapped the old man. "We're in grave danger. Blaze
Amborg is a man of violence. In a few minutes he'll figure out what
happened to the ekalastron and be out looking for us."

Chip stared at him. "The ekalastron? But what _did_ happen to it? It
disappeared--"

"Into," grunted Salvation, "my pocket! While I was arranging Jenkins'
clothing. 'He who taketh in the cause of righteousness hath done the
will of the Lord!' Amborg is an evil, wilful man. He would have used
the ekalastron for his own wicked purposes. In our hands, all mankind
shall profit of its beneficence. But, come! Where?"

"C-churchill Field," stammered Chip. "Dock 31, Bin A. T-this way,
Padre."

They moved at quickened stride through the darkened streets. As they
neared the cradles wherein lay the vessels of a thousand diverse ports,
Salvation questioned Chip still further.

"What type of ship is it, lad?"

"Not a very new one, sir. A Challenger 7-jet, four berth explorer. But
in good shape. My friend and I managed to get it cheap, reconditioned
it--"

"Then you have a companion?"

"Yes, Padre. Syd Palmer. He's waiting aboard. We had planned to lift
gravs tomorrow for a prospecting tour of the planetoids. I visited the
Cosmobar because I thought I might run into some old space-dodger who
would give me a tip on a lode-rock--"

"And you ran into," said the missionary, "something which may turn out
to be the greatest discovery ever made by man. Murder ... thievery ...
wealth ... is this the ship?"

They had stopped before one of the smaller cradles. Chip pressed a
signal button, a buzzer responded, there came from within the familiar
wheeze of an air-lock generator.

"This is it, sir. Please step in. 'Lo, Syd. This is Doctor--Mister--"

"Call me 'Salvation'," said the old man. "I'm used to it. Palmer, I
take it you're the chief engineer of this jaloppy?"

Syd Palmer was short and chubby; his hair was a tow colored bristle
that stood up like a cock's-comb when he was excited or annoyed. It
stood up now, and his pale blue eyes danced with tiny, indignant sparks.

"I'm the engineer of this _ship_!"

"Call it what you will," grunted Salvation. "Is it fast?"

Palmer grinned. "Puh-lenty! I've hepped the hypos to super-max. The
_Chickadee_ can outrun anything its size in space, and a lot of bigger
ones, besides!"

"Good! And have you got clearance papers?"

"Why, yes, but--"

"Excellent: 'Verily, He taketh care of His own nor faileth them in time
of need.'" Salvation nodded to Warren. "We'll lift gravs," he said,
"immediately!"

Palmer stared at him, then at his companion.

"What is this, Chip? Old boy off his jets?"

"Far from it," said Chip seriously. "Can't explain everything now, Syd;
time's too short. But you like a good, old-fashioned fight, don't you?"

"Fight? Sa-a-ay, now--"

"Then warm the hypos," ordered Chip, "while I plot a course. We're
lifting gravs immediately--for Titania."

       *       *       *       *       *

During the long days that followed, there was time and to spare
in which to clarify the situation to Syd. When he heard of Chip's
adventure at the Cosmobar, his pale eyes gleamed and fists less chubby
than they appeared tightened at his sides. "Wish I'd been there--" he
muttered. Salvation glared at him and snorted, "'Verily they are fools
who do not rejoice that they have escaped woe!'"

And when Chip showed him the ball of ekalastron--

"Glory be!" exclaimed Syd. "There's enough to dip a whole battle unit
in that one ball! What are we going to Titania for? Why not fly this to
Earth immediately and let the Council know--"

"Because Amborg knows," replied Chip grimly, "that this came from
Titania. He was nearby when Jenkins said so in his dying breath. That
was probably the secret Amborg's thugs had been trying to probe from
the miner all night. I have a hunch that Amborg is out there somewhere
right now!"

He nodded toward the quartzite view-pane. Outside lay space--the long,
dreary reaches of space between Mars and Uranus. But it didn't look
like space. Not like space as navigators a short ten years ago had
known it, an eternal pall of blackness spangled with the livid dots of
a myriad stars.

This was a blotched, striped, crazy-quilt of color. Crimson, ochre,
emerald--all the hues of the rainbow merged into a faery, magic
loveliness. This was space as seen when Man traveled at the terrific
speed attainable only through the use of the recently developed
V-I unit, velocity intensifier, invented by that mad genius of the
spaceways, Lancelot Biggs of the lugger, _Saturn_.

Five years ago, in the year 2210, the fastest craft in the ether
had had a top speed of approximately 200,000 miles per hour. Now
almost every ship was equipped with the V-I adapter that gave it a
flight-potential limited only by the critical velocity of light. Where
once it would have required almost ten months to reach Titania, second
satellite of far Uranus, the trio could now expect to gain their
destination, traveling at a speed of more than 650,000,000 mph., in
something less than half that many _days_!

"I have a hunch," repeated Chip, "that Amborg and his crew are
somewhere out there right now, speeding, as we are, to Titania. Of
course we can't tell. We're not equipped with a magno-tector, and we
couldn't see them unless by sheer chance they should approach within
our visibility parellax.

"But when we get to Titania and slow down, we must go on the alert.
Salvation has told me about Amborg. He's a hard, brilliant man with a
dangerously criminal mind. Let him find Jenkins' ore-deposit and the
Federation of Planets would pay through the nose for his discovery.
Jenkins said there was a whole mine of ekalastron. With that at his
disposal, Amborg could make himself a robber baron. An Emperor of the
outlaw world."

"Which is why," Salvation offered gravely, "we must get there before he
does. Lay claim to the deposit, somehow secure its safety against the
arrival of I.P.S. troops. Can we but find the mine, soldiers will come
in jigtime from New Oslo on Uranus. But--"

Syd nodded.

"I see. But we couldn't walk into the garrison and hand them a line
about a "mine" of ekalastron. They'd shove us into the nearest
looney-bin. And I wouldn't blame them a bit. If I didn't know Chip
Warren like I know my own lovely pan--but suppose we meet Amborg?"

"'The Lord,'" said Salvation, "'is my strength and my salvation. In His
hands do I place my guidance.'" His lean hands flexed powerfully. "We
destroy them," he said gently, "like the rats they are...."

Thus four days sped by in plan and conjecture. And on the fifth day Syd
Palmer cut the velocity-intensifiers to normal, and a scant thousand
miles beneath them, so accurate had been Chip's astrogation, gleamed
the silvery mote which was Titania, second child of the mother planet,
Uranus.

"Well done, my son!" approved Salvation. "The best landcast I've ever
seen!"

Palmer was less exuberant. He stared at Titania, scratched his yellow
crest morbidly.

"A damn snowball!" he mourned. "A damned snowball, eight hundred miles
in diameter! Sweet crimes of Beelzebub, Chip, how do you ever expect
to find a pinpoint of a mine on that huge hunk of ice? It will take us
ages!"

"We'll cruise at low elevation," said Chip, "until we see something.
There must be a dark spot showing against that sheen of white
somewhere. Jenkins spoke of caverns and natives and flame. We have
plenty of supplies--_look out!_"

He leaped even as he shouted. Leaped to the panels and jammed the full
strength of his six foot plus frame to a deflecting lever. The control
room of the _Chickadee_ whirled giddily as the little ship spun into
a crazy spiral; Palmer yelped, skidding helplessly across the floor.
Salvation let loose a roar and clung ardently to a stanchion, his
silvery locks whipping straight out from his head with the force of the
drive.

Chip threw himself into the bucket-shaped pilot's-chair, gained
possession of the controls. An instant later, the _Chickadee_ was
tossing through the maddest gyrations Chip could devise. Fore, loft
and jet, with hypos throbbing, the little craft was blasting, shaking,
quivering like a leaf in a cyclone.

And above the tumult of racing hypos came the sound of Syd's voice:
"What is it, Chip? Amborg?"

Chip nodded tightly, his hands gripping the control levers, his eyes
glued to the perilens through which he saw the enemy craft. A larger
ship, with a red fang darting from its prow, slashing viciously at
the bobbing _Chickadee_. "It's Blaze Amborg, all right! And he means
business! He's got an Ingermann ray-rotor on that crate of his; he's
trying to burn us clean out of the ether!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chip Warren and Syd Palmer were the co-owners of the _Chickadee_; it
was Chip whose alertness had saved them in that first, terrifying
moment, Chip it was who still held the controls. But it was Salvation
Smith who usurped the mastership during the crisis.

"Hell's flaming damnation!" he cried, and there rang in his voice a
rage above weak need of profanity. "Lend now Thy servant strength, O
Lord, to smite these sons of Hurkan!" He whirled on Palmer, snarling.
"Break out bulgers for us in case they should pierce the hull! Chip,
son, do the controls answer well? Good! Keep dodging. Swing aft; the
beam can't nip you there! You've armament aboard this heap?"

Syd, tugging three spacesuits from the store-closet, puffed over his
shoulder, "Only a low-cycle heat-gun. There! Under that tarp. Press the
green stud to clear the nose from the hull-plates. It's retractable--"

"You're telling me," bellowed Salvation, "how to rig a cannon? I was
teethed on a lanyard, praise be to Jehovah!" He had the tarpaulin off
in a jiffy, the fore-irons open, and shot an experimental burst from
the small weapon. He smiled. "Good! But you've got to get closer to
him, Chip; this thing is only effective at short range."

Chip said dubiously, "I don't know, Padre. Perhaps we should cut and
run for it. If that beam hits us--"

"Are we mice," bellowed Salvation, "or men? You've got to get closer!
The Lord is our right hand. 'Surely the evil shall fail, yea, the way
of the transgressor shall perish!'" He loosed another blast from the
small gun, breathed a sigh of satisfaction. "Aaah! that's better!
Closer!"

"You're the skipper!" decided Chip suddenly. A jab of the finger, the
stern-jets crackled and the _Chickadee_ cut suddenly to starboard,
swinging straight toward the craft of Blaze Amborg.

So unexpected was the move that it caught the enemy gunner napping.
For an instant he had a clear target before him. But he had not been
expecting such luck, and before he could center his sights on the
_Chickadee_, the smaller vessel was streaking down upon and over his
own.

And Salvation Smith's voice shouted triumph through the room.
"'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord!'" he intoned, "'I shall repay!'"
His hand jerked the release-stud.

And as though the metal skin of the enemy boat were tinfoil held above
a flame, there appeared suddenly upon its hull a leprous spot of black,
from the curling edges of which silvery alloy sloughed off in rolling,
sluggish waves. From within the ship small motes poured forth, sucked
out by the frigid vacuum of space to explode and die frightfully; sore,
raw, pressured clots of matter that had been men. The other ship reeled
for a moment like a stricken hart, then crumpled upon itself, a wildly
spinning boomerang of death.

"You got 'em!" squealed Syd Palmer from his vantage spot at the
perilens. "Got 'em all, Padre! No--there goes a life-skiff from the
wreck!" His voice rose in sharp fear. "_Omigod!_ Swing out, Chip!
Swing--"

But Chip had seen the new danger as quickly as his comrade. Here was
peril beyond Amborg's fondest devising. As the stricken ship, folding
upon itself, spun aimlessly in space, its forejet wheeled like a
flaming spiral--and from the prow still flamed the withering, crimson
ray now untended by living hands!

Like a gigantic scythe it flailed the ether, swinging a huge curve
directly toward the _Chickadee_. Vainly Chip jammed the studs before
him, striving to escape above, below or beyond that sword of doom.

There came the ear-splitting crash of impact, metal screamed thin
agony, rending itself to shreds somewhere aft; the _Chickadee_
shuddered like a pole-felled steer under its mortal wound.

Instinct shot Chip's hands to the lock-stud which sealed the control
chamber airtight from the rest of the ship; that action alone spared
them for a few minutes. But each of them knew the ship was doomed to
crash. Syd croaked, "Here! The bulgers! Get in them--_quick_!"

Split seconds later, they were three grotesque figures huddled before
the control board, staring through quartzite globular headpanes at
Chip's last, frenzied efforts to break the fall of the _Chickadee_.
The studs beneath his fingers were unresponsive as the inarticulate
phalanges of a broken limb. In vain and desperately he struggled to
gain a modicum of control over the falling craft, now firmly gripped by
Titania's gravitational field. They had fallen into the high atmosphere
of the little globe, now; thin winds howled and bansheed about their
sharded hull, and the walls of the room began to heat.

The aft jets were dead, the anti-gravs broken, helpless. There remained
but one possible way in which to keep them from being crushed to bits.
A prow landing, braked by the fore jets. It was dangerous, but--

"There!" cried Syd. "Look there, Chip! Below us!"

Chip risked a brief glance, saw that the smooth and icy surface of
Titania was broken by a long, ragged swatch of black. Ironic laughter
curled the corners of his tight-set lips. What a quirk of fate that
here, with death but a hair's-breadth removed, they should unwittingly
find that for which under happier circumstances they might have sought
endlessly and in vain. The promised spot of habitation on the bleak
little moon of Uranus.

"I'm fore-jetting!" he crisped. "Stand by for--a fadeout!"

Salvation's hand was on his shoulder, reassuringly, somehow warm
despite its casement of rubberoid fabric. "Be of strong heart, my son,"
he said simply, "He who watcheth the fall of the smallest sparrow, He
shall not fail His own in their hour of need."

Then Chip pressed the necessary, the only remaining responsive keys.
And the control room trembled like a hurt thing, seemed to stop
stock-still in space, shake itself for a moment--then plunge on.
Forejets flamed blast upon roaring blast. Chip felt the gravitational
force seem to lessen as the flares beat stubbornly against the adamant
breast of the globe below. Drop ... stagger ... drop again ... the
shocking concussion of brakes ... then a swift, dizzy, headlong fall....

Wild winds howled, and the din of metals tortured beyond endurance
slashed at Chip's eardrums. He was aware of the last cry of Syd Palmer,
his life-long friend. "Luck, Chip, old pal--!" And the remembered ghost
of Salvation's promise. "He shall not fail His own--"

Then a horrendous crash jarred his head back on the seat. A smashing
veil of crimson settled before his eyes ... then there was darkness.
And silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

He felt some mad conceit that this was death ... that the restless
fingers of the gray unalive plucked at his arm, bidding him rise and
stir forward toward he knew not what.

Then suddenly he was awake, alive, and conscious--and it was not death,
but life; fingers _did_ tug at him, but they were the figures of--

"_'Ranies!_" cried Chip. "Hands off, you! Or--"

The green complexioned native growled some guttural comment, moved
closer rather than away, and pinioned Chip's arms to his sides. Chip
saw, now, that the _Chickadee_, though battered and broken beyond hope
of repair, had miraculously grounded without destroying them all. For
Syd was stirring, and Salvation, too, but each of them was surrounded
by green natives, as was Chip. These creatures, the nearest approach to
Man's physiology that had ever been found in the System, were tall and
rugged, masterfully built. They were equipped with native lariats or
bolas; these they whipped cuttingly about their captives.

Chip strained lashed fingers toward the heat-pistol in his belt. But
Salvation, seeing his motion, stopped him.

"No, lad! Relax! Don't make a hostile move!"

Chip growled, "No damned greenie is going to make a trussed duck out of
me. If I can reach this gun--"

"If you value your life," said Salvation, "and your welfare, keep your
hands quiet and your wits active! These creatures aren't Uranians.
They're Titanians. An offspring of the parent race, but as savage and
untamed as beasts.

"I don't know what they plan to do with us. I have heard they are
a strange, mystical race; their tribal rites and taboos are many
and--dangerous! Our only chance is to be quiet, try to reason with
them, convince them we are not foes but friends--"

All three were securely tied, now, save for their legs. The tallest
Titanian, evidently the group chieftain, grunted a word of command.
Strong arms prodded Chip and his fellows forward, out of the broken
_Chickadee_, into the bleak landscape of Titania.

They had crashed in the dark spot Chip had viewed from above. They
discovered, now, that this spot was dark because--incredibly--here the
thick, icy blanket had been stripped away to discover the raw and
rocky core of the Uranian moon.

Black rocks thrust jagged spires skyward, mountains of stone girdled
this one clear space on the whole of Titania; greater wonder still,
gnarled and stunted trees, lichens of hardiest verdure, eked a
precarious existence from the grudging soil.

And here the natives had--a village. One coarser, cruder, than the
village of the meanest of Earth's savages, but a village nonetheless.
Slab dwellings dabbed with thick black clay, a central structure,
larger than the rest, something that looked like a market--or community
gathering-spot.

Chip's wonderment had made him impervious at first to such trivia
as personal comfort and discomfort. He found now, though, that he
was cold. By dint of much effort, he managed to squirm a hand to his
belt-studs, operate the tiny needle that increased the warmth of his
space-suit.

Almost immediately there came a howl from the green native maintaining
a vigilant grip on Chip's arm; the fellow leaped away, bellowing angry,
guttural speech at his leader.

And Salvation spun to Chip swiftly.

"Chip--turn down that heat, boy!"

"B--but--" stammered Chip.

"Quickly!"

Chip obeyed. It was well he did so, for the leader was moving toward
him menacingly. With a cautious finger he touched Chip's suit. Then,
apparently mollified to discover it satisfactorily cold, he snarled a
word or two and the little party moved on.

Chip stared at the old missionary.

"But, why?" he demanded. "What did I do wrong? I don't get it. I was
freezing, and--"

"Then you've got to freeze," said Salvation Smith, "and like it. Until
we can escape from these creatures. Do you have any idea how cold it is
here on Titania, my boy?"

Chip said, "Why, plenty cold, I suppose--"

"About minus 380° Fahrenheit!" said Smith. "That's all. Uranians and
Titanians may _look_ like Earthmen, lad, but they're built entirely
different. They are not children of the Sun, as we are. Their bodies
are so constituted as to be able to stand extremes of frigidity that
would quick-freeze us like salmon. Sluggish basal metabolism, dermal,
rather than pneumonic respiration--these enable them to endure what to
us appear the impossible living conditions of a world on which mercury
and gallium are adamant solids, liquid hydrogen forms seas, and the
snow is carbon dioxide.

"When you turned on the heating unit of your bulger you subjected that
native's hand to what was to him a burning, unendurable heat!"

Chip nodded.

"I see. That makes sense. But--but there must be some warmth around
here? A cleared patch--"

"I haven't yet decided whether this patch was cleared by heat or
labor," said Salvation. "If we can make them believe we are friends, I
may learn. I can sling their talk a little. It's not unlike the Uranian
language. But--"

He stopped, and his voice rose to a shout. "Behold! Thou hast delivered
mine enemy into mine hands, O Lord; Thou hast brought the wicked even
unto judgment!"

And Chip, following his gaze, saw a second party of Titanians
approaching the central gathering place from the opposite direction.
These natives held captive, even as he and Salvation and Syd were held,
an ill-assorted foursome in spacemen's bulgers. A giant Venusian, a
greenie, a dwarfed Jovian and an Earthman!

"Amborg!" yelled Chip. "Blaze Amborg and his crew! They got away on
that life-skiff, but they were caught when they landed! Padre--"

It had not occurred to him that the arms of Amborg and his men
would not be, like their own, lashed securely. Thus it came as a
heart-stopping shock to hear Amborg's cry ring in their ears, a sharp
cry of command--then suddenly there flamed from the sidearms of the
other captive group the withering blasts of heat-guns!


                                  III

Chip Warren had bitterly resented the close guard with which the
Titanians had surrounded him and his comrades; he had reason, now, to
be grateful for that very protection. Otherwise his dreams of space
adventure would have ended suddenly and terribly in that moment.

As it was, the foremost wall of Titanians took the brunt of Amborg's
vicious attack. They screamed as pencils of crimson scorched the life
from their unprotected bodies, screamed and died horribly, falling in
blackened piles that whimpered futilely for an instant and were still.

Chip had never known a moment of such dreadful impotence as this. Arms
lashed to his sides, his own weapon as securely removed from his grasp
as if it no longer existed, there was nothing he could do but attempt
to evade the flame of the lethal guns.

With a choking cry to his mates, he threw himself forward; his knees
struck rocky ground, grit slashed his unprotected headpane as he fell,
and for an instant he feared the impact might shatter the quartzite,
exposing him to the deadly, ammoniac atmosphere of Uranus' second moon.

Then he was entrenched behind the still-smouldering bodies of the slain
Titanians, watching the speed of their fellows' reprisal.

And it was speedy. Salvation had spoke truly when he said these
creatures were savage and untamed as beasts. Reckless of their own
lives, green-casted features snarling, they swooped down on the
treacherous quartet. In the split of a second they had seized them,
bound them, removed their weapons.

But Chip and his companions suffered the same fate as their
adversaries. The Titanians stripped them of their sidearms, as they had
taken those of Amborg's men. Ungentle hands herded them into one of the
nearby hovels, and there, as two guards held the single doorway, they
were deserted.

Salvation groaned his rage and discomfiture.

"A judgment on that beast in man's flesh!" he proclaimed. "He has
destroyed us all! Had I been given an opportunity to talk with their
chief, quietly, peaceably, this matter might have been settled with no
harm done to anyone. But as it is--" He shook his head.

Syd said, "What do you think they'll do next?"

"Whatever it is," said Chip tightly, "I've got an idea it isn't going
to be pleasant. They're gathering; hear their footsteps and voices? And
there's something like the beat of a tom-tom--" He stared at Salvation
speculatively. "Padre--torture?"

Salvation stroked his long, lean jaw. "I hope not, my son. But--I don't
know. They are savages, and I have heard they place much faith in rites
and ceremonies. But we will learn soon. Meanwhile, keep faith with Him
who watches us all."

They learned sooner than they dared expect. Whatever else might lay in
store for them, they were at least spared the agony of waiting. The
Titanian preparations took but little time. Within scant hours after
their incarceration, the three Earthmen were once again dragged from
their prison to meet their judgment and their fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

That some form of ritual was in progress was immediately apparent.
From hillside, rock, cranny and hovel had come the Titanians; there
were more of them than Chip would have believed could subsist in this
hostile environment. A solid phalanx of them walled the avenue up which
they were led. As they walked, the Titanians chanted a slow and ominous
threnody. There was a dirgelike quality to the chant; despite the
surface courage with which Chip bolstered himself he felt the chill of
nervous apprehension upon him. Palmer must have felt the same way. He
edged closer to Chip, spoke from the corner of his mouth in a tone that
belied the forced gaiety of his words.

"Swell end to our trip, pal. _Piece de resistance_ for a gang of green
choristers!"

Salvation overheard him. "We have not yet come to the end of our
journey," he said. "The line stretches up the side of yonder hill. To
those caves." He lifted his voice sonorously, drawing curious stares
from the green-skinned Titanian guards. "I shall lift up mine eyes unto
the hills," he cried, "whence cometh my strength and my salvation--"

"Caves!" Sudden memory flashed back upon Chip Warren. "Jenkins said
something about caves, Padre, remember? Caves and flame--"

"There's Amborg," interrupted Syd. His plump face was tightly pale
behind his globular mask. "I don't care so much about checking out," he
said, "but I wish I could get my hands on that rat just for a minute
before--"

His words dwindled into silence. It was, Chip believed, an impressed
silence. For they had reached the foot of the hill, now, and were
climbing between two chanting rows of natives toward a huge, ornate,
altarlike structure placed before the largest of the cave-mouths.

The dirge rose and soared, filling their ears with numbing fear; they
moved upward inexorably, monotonously, almost mechanically. And finally
they stood before the high altar.

Chip saw, then, what he would never have credited if it had been told
him by another; what he could not have believed had he not seen it with
his own eyes. He saw into the cave-mouth--and what he viewed there was
so incredible that it brought a gasp unbidden to his lips.

This cave, deepset in the mouths of icy Titania--this cave, which by
all laws of nature, of logic and reason, should be a dank, forbidding
gateway to frightful cold--was bright-gleaming with orange, crimson,
ochre tongues of flame! Within it, high-rising to the very lofted
vaults, roared a staggering, tremendous holocaust of fire!

And beyond the altar was a precipice overlooking a sunken vale. This
vale, like the interior of the cave, was shimmering like the plains of
Abaddon with coruscating fingers, sheets, spires of red.

He was aware that he had gasped, for he detected a similar gasp
from Syd, and he heard Salvation Smith say a single, incredulous
word. "Sheol!" Then the chieftain, or high priest--Chip did not know
which--spoke from the altar. Shortly he spoke, but with strident
emphasis, jabbing his fingers at the two groups of captives in turn.

"What is he saying?" demanded Chip.

Salvation interpreted hastily. "We have violated their land. We have
been brought to the Place of Destruction to meet judgment for our
crime. The test of fire will prove our guilt--" Then he raised his
voice, spoke to the Titanian ruler.

The outland ruler heard him through, then answered. Salvation turned to
Chip and Syd. "I told him," he explained, "that we were friends, come
in amity. That we intended them no harm or offense--"

"And what did he say?"

"He said," relayed Salvation grudgingly, "that they were forced to
distrust us because our 'companions' were men of sin and violence--"

"Companions!" interjected Syd angrily.

"--and he said, also, that he realized we might be gods. He says there
are two types of white creatures, those who are mortals and evil, and
those who are Masters of Fire. We must be tested to see which we are."

"Two types?" cried Chip. "Masters of Fire? Padre, what does he mean?"

Salvation shrugged helplessly. "I don't know. But wait--he is talking
again."

       *       *       *       *       *

This time the green chieftain's speech was longer, more dramatic. He
postured, gestured; once he strode to the edge of his raised platform
and pointed majestically down into the chasm below. Then, concluding
his words with a tone of finality, he folded his arms across his chest.

Chip noticed that a few rods away Amborg's Uranian companion was
interpreting his decision to Blaze. Salvation performed the same
function.

"He says," explained Salvation, "we must walk into this cave of fearful
flame. It leads through burning corridors to the valley below. In that
valley is the life-skiff which brought Amborg and his men here.

"If we are good men, gods, and guiltless, the flame will not destroy
us. There was one not long ago who walked unscathed through the fires,
he says. That man was surely a god."

"Jenkins!" broke in Chip. "It must have been--"

Salvation nodded. "That is what I thought, too, my son. But--but
how? How could Jenkins survive the flames?" And he stared sombrely,
questioningly, at the sheet of ruddy fire filling the cave from base
to arch. He shook himself. "Well--that is a problem we must solve, and
soon. For the ceremony has begun. _Amborg!_" he cried.

The dark man turned. Chip saw that his face was set in granite lines.
Nearest to the cavern mouth, his men were being prodded toward the
awful test they must endure.

Even in this critical moment, Salvation was the man of god. "Amborg,"
he said, "you have been ever an evil man, living and thinking the
thoughts of Satan. But there is yet time for you to repent and
confess your sins. As a fellow man, I loathe and despise you. But as
His emissary, I offer you even in this hour of trial the peace that
surpasseth all human understanding--"

Amborg laughed at him. His voice crackled harshly, metallically, in the
audio-phones of Chip's space-helmet.

"Save that stuff for the suckers, old man. You and your pals are
just worried because we get first chance to go down into the valley.
Well--you'd better worry! There's a rotor-gun mounted in that
life-skiff. If we hadn't all been jarred cold when we landed, we'd have
given these greenies a sweet greeting. We're going to lift the ship out
of that ditch and bring it back over here. Save your prayers; you'll
need them when we come over!"

Salvation reminded him stonily, "The flames--"

"Flames be damned! Superstitious poppycock! Spacesuits will protect us
from heat or cold alike. Well--come on!"

He gestured his mates to him. The wailing chant of the Titanian natives
increased in tone and volume as the four outlaws left their guards and
boldly strode the last few rods up the hill, past the dais--and into
the roaring hell-mouth of the cave!

And as they entered, Chip Warren knew a swift sinking of heart. His
apprehensions had been unfounded, Amborg's claim that the lethal power
of the flame was "superstitious poppycock" was true. The spacesuits
_were_ adequate protection, and in short moments, Amborg would be
soaring back across the plateau, the jets of his rotor-gun spewing
death and destruction upon them all....

Then, "My God!" gasped Syd Palmer, his voice awed.

Chip looked, and shuddered to see, the last judgment of Blaze Amborg
and his men. A scant dozen yards they strode into the cavern. Vast
spirals of fire played about them, but they did not falter. Their
suits, ingeniously woven of metal, rubber, asbesto-quartz, defied
the combustive powers of fire. But despite this--one of the figures
staggered. The stunted Jovian was first to succumb. He had just pitched
forward to his face when the second figure reeled. Raat 'Aran, the
Uranian. He reeled and clutched at the tall Venusian, Torth--but the
Venusian, too, had dropped to his knees; his hands clawed frenziedly at
his breast.

Then the mysterious death struck Amborg. His voice rang out in a
piercing scream; Chip saw him stare wildly at the three now-motionless
bodies of his comrades, whirl, race back toward the safety of the
hillside.

But he never reached it. He had taken no more than a dozen strides when
he fell. A moment his incoherent cries babbled sickening delirium into
his watchers' ear-phones....

Then all was still, save for the inexorable chanting of the natives.
And the grave, judicial voice of the Titanian on the altar.

"They have been tested in the flame," interpreted Salvation Smith
soberly, "and found guilty. Now it is our turn...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Chip Warren was not a religious man. He lived by a simple code: do good
and keep your sidearms primed. But now there faced him the inevitable
finality of death; he felt an urge to meet that last, great mystery in
comfort. He turned to his friends gravely.

"Now," he said, "it is our turn. So I guess this is goodbye, Syd. And
Padre--it might help if you could say a few words for us ... just
something...."

"So be it, my son!" said Salvation, understandingly. He lifted his
head; his fine old eyes sought the murky gray skies of Titania, so
different from the sweet blue Earthly skies for which all space-farers'
hearts yearned when their journey's end was reached.

"If this be the way," he said quietly, "thy servants must depart, then
so be it, O Lord. Yet even now in extremis we do not forget Thee and
Thy might. We remember even yet--" He looked at the flaming cave-mouth
toward which they must in a moment walk. "Even yet we remember a
fellowship like ours who met and defied the dread embrace of fire.

"'And in those days,'" he said, "'there were three children of Israel
which the king Nebuchadnezzar ordered to be cast without raiment
into the fiery furnace. And their names were Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego--'"

"_Shadrach!_" cried Chip. There was no intentional irreverence in his
interruption. Understanding had burst upon him so suddenly that the
words hurtled from his lips.

"Peace, my son!" counseled the old man. "Let not your heart be
troubled--"

"It's not! We're all right, Padre! If my hunch is right--and it must
be! Look, they are bidding us walk into the caves. We haven't a moment
to spare. Hurry, _get off your spacesuits_!"

There was biting cold upon Chip Warren's limbs and body as he cast the
limp shell of his bulger behind him. But as he neared the cavern's
mouth, the cold grew less intense. Less intense! That in itself was
final, convincing proof he had been right! He was barely two yards from
the writhing gouts of flame now. Were that the true fire it _appeared_
to be, its searing blasts would already be parching his skin to black
flakes--

But it was not! It was merely--pleasantly warm!

"I was right!" he cried exultantly. "Syd ... Padre! Come on in!" His
voice was almost hysterical with relief as he stepped gingerly over the
prostrate bodies of those who had gone into the fiery furnace garbed in
suits of metallic substance. "Come on in--the fire's fine!"

And together the three new Children of Israel walked unharmed into the
fiery furnace of Titania....

       *       *       *       *       *

The corridors led, as the Titanian chieftain said, downward, winding,
through the hill to the vale below, where rested Amborg's navigable
life-skiff. The small cruiser in which they were to fly to neighboring
Uranus, there find aid and eager ears into which to pour their story.

And it did not surprise Chip Warren in the least to discover, about
halfway down the flickering tunnel, a ledge of brightly gleaming ore
that was resilient to the touch but broke the keen edge of the knife
with which Chip attempted to scratch it.

"Ekalastron!" he cried. "See--a whole mountain of it! Not just a mine;
a mountain! Enough to fill Man's needs for centuries!"

Syd's eyes, behind the quartzite globe, were big as saucers. He gulped,
"C-chip--are you sure we're alive? Do you think maybe we died back
there in the first cave, maybe? And this is all some wild illusion--?"

"It is not illusion," proclaimed Salvation serenely. "I understand,
now, what Chip divined in time to save us from a dreadful fate." And he
looked at the young man affectionately. "Radiation was what killed the
others, my boy?"

Chip nodded. "Must have been, Padre. The 'flames' were not true flames
at all. Not as we Earthlings, children of a warm Sun, masters of
combustive fire, understand flame.

"Different elements have different combustive temperatures. On
bitter-cold Uranus and Titania, the kindling point of certain rare
gases is necessarily in ratio to the outer cold. The kindling point of
the gases in this tunnel is a temperature which--though fiery-hot and
deadly to the Titanians--is only pleasantly _warm_ to us!"

"So Amborg," continued Syd, "walked into the flaming tunnel wearing a
space-suit--"

"A _metallic_ space-suit," reminded Chip, "which was a transmitter for
certain lethal radiations inherent to this 'cold heat.' Blaze Amborg
did not die of flame. He died of--electrocution."

Then a strange thought struck him and he turned suddenly to Salvation
Smith. "Padre--?"

"Yes, my son?"

"The story you started to tell. The one that gave me my inspiration.
About Shadrach. I wonder if some time long ago in the past, that legend
may not have sprung from an adventure such as ours?"

Salvation smiled and shook his head.

"That is not mine to say, my boy, not yet thine to question. Perhaps
some day the truth shall be known to you and me. But meanwhile--"

But meanwhile, the life-skiff was theirs for the taking. This was no
question to long plague Chip Warren or any other space-adventurer,
before whom stretched a whole, wide universe of wonder.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of "Shadrach", by Nelson S. Bond

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK "SHADRACH" ***

***** This file should be named 61976-8.txt or 61976-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/9/7/61976/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
