The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lorelei Death, by Nelson S. Bond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Lorelei Death

Author: Nelson S. Bond

Release Date: May 6, 2020 [EBook #62039]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LORELEI DEATH ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           THE LORELEI DEATH

                           by NELSON S. BOND

                 Far out in limitless Space she plied
                 her deadly trade ... a Lorelei of the
                 void, beckoning spacemen to death and
              destruction with her beautiful siren lure.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Chip Warren stood before an oblong of glass set into one wall of
the spaceship _Chickadee II_, stared at what he saw reflected
therefrom--and frowned. He didn't like it. Not a bit! It was too--too--

He turned away angrily, ripped the offending article from about his
neck, and chose another necktie from the rack. This one was brighter,
gaudier, much more in keeping with the gaiety of his mood. He emitted a
grunt of satisfaction, spun from the mirror to face his two companions
triumphantly.

"There! How do you like _that_?"

Syd Palmer, short and chubby, tow-headed and liquid-blue of eye, always
languid save when engaged in the solution of some engineering problem
concerned with the space vessel he mothered like a brooding hen, moaned
insultingly and forced a shudder.

"Sunspots! Novae! Flying comets! And he wears 'em around his neck!"

"You," Chip told him serenely, "have no appreciation of beauty. What do
_you_ think of it, Padre?"

"Salvation" Smith, a tall, gangling scarecrow garbed in rusty black,
a lean-jawed, hawkeyed man with tumbled locks of silver framing his
weathered cheeks like a halo, concealed his grin poorly. "Well,
my boy," he admitted, "there is _some_ Biblical precedent for
your--ahem!--clamorous raiment. 'So Joseph made for himself a coat
which was of many colors--'"

"Both of you," declared Chip, "give me a pain in the pants!
Stick-in-the-muds! Here we are in port for the first time in months,
cargo-bins loaded to the gunwales with enough ekalastron to make us
rich for life--and you sit here like a pair of stuffed owls!

"Well, not me! I'm going to take a night off, throw myself a party the
likes of which was never seen around these parts. Put a candle in the
window, chilluns, 'cause li'l' Chip won't be home till the wee, sma'
hours!"

Syd chuckled.

"O.Q., big shot. But don't get too cozy with any of those joy-joint
entertainers. Remember what happened to poor old Dougal MacNeer!"

Salvation said soberly, "Syd's just fooling, my boy. But I _would_ be
careful if I were you. We're in the Belt, you know. The forces of law
and order do not always govern these wild outposts of civilization as
well as might be hoped. The planetoids are dens of iniquity, violent
and unheeding the words of Him who rules all--"

The old man's lips etched a straight line, reminding Chip that
Salvation Smith was not one of those milk-and-water missionaries who
espoused the principle of "turning the other cheek" to evildoers.
Salvation was not the ordained emissary of any church. A devoutly
religious man with the heart of an adventurer, he had taken upon
himself the mission of carrying to outland tribes the story of the God
he worshipped.

That his God was the fierce Yahveh of the Old Testament, a God of
anger and retribution, was made evident by the methods Salvation
sometimes employed in winning his converts. For not only was Salvation
acknowledged the most pious man in space; he was also conceded to be
the best hand with a gun!

Now Chip gave quiet answer. "I know, Padre: I'll be careful. Well,
Syd--sure you won't change your mind and come along?"

"No can do, chum. The spaceport repair crew's still smearing this
jalopy with ek. Got to stay and watch 'em."

"O.Q. I'm off alone, then. See you later!"

And, whistling, Chip Warren stepped through the lock of the _Chickadee_
onto the soil of the asteroid Danae.

       *       *       *       *       *

Danae was, thought Chip as he strolled along briskly toward the town
beyond the spaceport, a most presentable hunk of rock. Nice _lucentite_
Dome ... good atmo ... a fine artificial grav system based on Terra
normal. It seemed to be a popular little fueling-stop, too, for its
cradle-bins were laden with vessels from every planet in the System,
and as he gained the main drag he found himself rubbing shoulders
with citizens of every known world. Lumbering, albino Venusians,
petal-headed Martians, Jovian runts, greenies from far Uranus,
Earthman--all were here.

Quite a likely place, he thought happily, to chuck a brawl. A
brilliantly gleaming xenon sign before him welcomed visitors to:

                           XU'UL'S SOLAREST
                       Barroom--Casino--Dancing
                      100--Lovely Hostesses--100

He entered, and was immediately deluged by a bevy of charm-gals vying
for the privilege of: (1) helping him beat the roulette wheel; (2)
helping him drink the house dry, and/or (3) separating him as swiftly
as possible from the credits in his money belt.

Chip shook them off, gently but firmly. He wanted a good time, true;
but he wanted it solo. The main cabaret was too crowded; he passed
through it and another equally blatant room wherein twoscore Venusians
were straining the structure with a native "sing-stomp," and ended up
finally, with a sigh of relief, in a small, dimly-lighted private bar
unfrequented by anyone save a bored and listless Martian bartender.

The chrysanthemum-pated son of the desertland roused himself as Chip
entered, rustled his petals and piped a ready greeting.

"Welcoom, ssirr! Trrink, pleasse?"

This was more like it! Chip grinned.

"Scotch," he said. "_Old Spaceman._ And let's have a new bottle, Curly.
None of that doctored swill."

"Of courrsse, ssirr!" piped the bar-keep aggrievedly. He pushed a
bottle across the mahogany; Chip flipped a golden credit-token back at
him.

"Tell me when I've guzzled this, and I'll start work on another." He
took a deep, appreciative sniff. "And don't let any of those dizzy
dolls in here," he ordered. "I've got a lot of back drinking to catch
up on, and I don't want to be disturbed--_Hey!_"

In his alarm, he almost dropped the bottle. For the door suddenly burst
open, and in its frame loomed a figure in Space Patrol blues. A finger
pointed in Chip's direction and a bull-o'-Bashan voice roared:

"_Stop!_ Bartender--grab that man! He's a desperate criminal, wanted on
four planets for murder!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Shock momentarily immobilized Chip. Not so the bartender. He was, it
seemed, an ardent pacifist. With a bleat of panic fear he scampered
from his post, his metallic stilts clattering off in the distance.
Chip's accuser moved forward from the shadows; dim light illumined his
features. And--

"_Johnny!_" Chip's voice lifted in a note of jubilant surprise.
"Johnny Haldane--you old scoundrel! Where in the void did _you_ drop
from?"

The S.S.P. man chuckled and returned Chip's greeting with a
bone-grinding handclasp.

"I might ask the same of you, chum! Lord, it's been ages since we've
crossed 'jectory! When I saw you meandering across the Casino, you
could have knocked me down with a jetblast! What's new? Is old Syd
still with you?"

"We're still shipmates. But he's back at the spaceport. The jerry-crew
is plating our crate with ek, and--"

"Ek! Plating a private cruiser!" Haldane stared at him in astonishment,
then whistled. "Sweet Sacred Stars, you must be filthy with credits to
be able to coat an entire ship with ekalastron!"

"You," boasted Chip, "ain't heard nothing yet!" And he told him how
they had discovered an entire mountain of the previous new element, No.
97 in the periodic table, on frigid Titania, satellite of far Uranus.
"It was touch-and-go for a while," he admitted, "whether we'd be the
luckiest three guys in space--or the deadest! But we passed through the
flaming caverns like old Shadrach in the Bible--remember?--and here we
are!"[1]

[Footnote 1: "_Shadrach_," <sc>Planet Stories</sc>, Fall, 1941.]

Haldane was exuberant. "A mountain of ekalastron!" he gloated.
"That's the greatest contribution to spaceflight since Biggs'
velocity-intensifier!" It was no overstatement. "Element No. 97 was a
metal so light that a man could carry in one hand enough to coat the
entire hull of a battleship--yet so adamant that a gossamer film of
it would deflect a meteor! A metal strong enough to crush diamonds to
ash--but so resilient that, when properly treated, it would rebound
like rubber! What are you going to do with it, Chip? Put it on the
open market?"

Warren shook his head.

"Not exactly. We talked it over carefully--Syd and Salvation and I--and
we decided there are some space-rats to whom it shouldn't be made
available. Privateers and outlaws, you know. So we turned control of
the mines over to the Space Patrol at Uranus, and visiphoned the Earth
authorities we were bringing in one cargo--"

"Visiphoned!" interrupted Haldane sharply. "Did you say visiphoned?"

"Why--why, yes."

"From where?"

"Oh, just before we reached the Belt. We don't have a very strong
transmitter, you know. Sa-a-ay, what's all the excitement, pal? Did we
do something that was wrong?"

Haldane frowned worriedly. "I don't know, Chip. It wasn't anything
_wrong_, but what you did was damned dangerous. For if your message was
intercepted, you may have played into the very hands of--the Lorelei!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chip stared at his friend bewilderedly for a moment. Then he grinned.
"Hey--I must be getting slightly whacky in my old age. I stand here
with an unopened bottle in my hands and hear things! For a minute I
thought you said 'Lorelei.' The Lorelei, my space-cop friend, is a
myth. An old Teutonic myth about a beautiful damsel who sits out in
the middle of a sea on a treacherous rock, combing her golden locks,
warbling and luring her fascinated admirers to destruction."

He grunted. "A dirty trick, if you ask me. Catch a snort of this
alleged Scotch, pal, and I'll torture your eardrums with the whole, sad
story." He started to sing. "'_Ich weiss nicht was soll es bedeuten_--'"

The Patrolman laid a hand on his arm, silenced him.

"It's not funny, Chip. You've described the Lorelei exactly. That's
how she got her name. An incredibly beautiful woman who wantonly lures
space-mariners to their death.

"The only difference is that her 'rock' is an asteroid somewhere in
the Belt--and she does not sing, she calls! She began exercising
her vicious appeal about two months ago, Earth reckoning. Since
then, no less than a dozen spacecraft--freighters, liners, even one
Patrolship--have fallen prey to her wiles. Their crews have been
brutally murdered, their cargos stolen."

"Wait a minute!" interrupted Chip shrewdly. "How do you know about her
if the crews have been murdered?"

"She has a habit of locking the controls," explained Haldane, "and
setting ravaged ships adrift. Apparently there is no room on her
hideout--wherever it is--for empty hulks. One of these ships was
salvaged by a courageous cabin-boy who hid from the Lorelei and her
pirate band beneath a closetful of soiled linens in the laundry. He
described her. His description goes perfectly with less accurate
glimpses seen over the visiphones of several score spacecraft!"

Chip said soberly, "So it's no joke, eh, pal? Sorry I popped off. I
thought you were pulling my leg. Where do _I_ come into this mess,
though?"

"Ekalastron!" grunted Johnny succinctly. "A jackpot prize for any
corsair! And you _advertised_ a cargo of it over the etherwaves! The
Lorelei will be waiting for you with her tongue hanging out. The only
thing for you to do, kid, is go back to Jupiter or Io as fast as you
can get there. Make the Patrol give you a convoy--"

A sudden light danced in Chip Warren's eyes. It was a light Syd Palmer
would have groaned to see--for it usually presaged trouble. It was a
bright, hard, reckless light.

"Hold your jets, Johnny!" drawled Chip. "Aren't you forgetting one
thing? In a couple more hours, I can face the Lorelei and her whole
mob--and be damned to them! She can't touch the _Chickadee_, because
it's being plated right now!"

Haldane snapped his fingers in quick remembrance.

"By thunder, you're right! Her shells will ricochet off the
_Chickadee's_ hull like hail off a tin roof. Chip, are you in any hurry
to reach Earth? I thought not. What do you say we go after the Lorelei
_together_! I'll swear you in as a Deputy Patrolman; we'll take the
_Chickadee_ and--"

"It's a deal!" declared Chip promptly. "You got any idea where this
Lorelei's hangout is?"

"That's why I'm here on Danae. I got a tip that one of the Lorelei's
men put in here for supplies. I hoped maybe I could single him
out somehow, follow him when he jetted for his base, and in that
way--_Chip! Look out!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

Haldane shouted and moved at the same time. His arm lashed out wildly,
thrusting, smashing Chip to the floor in a sprawling heap. The as-yet
unopened bottle was now violently opened; it splintered into a thousand
shards against a wall.

Bruised and shaken, Chip lifted his head to see what had caused
Johnny's alarm. Even as he did so, the dull gloom of the bar was
blazoned with searing effulgence. A lancet of flame leaped from the
dark, rearward doorway, burst in Johnny Haldane's face!

The Patrolman cried once, a choking cry that died in a mewling whimper.
His unused pistol slipped from slackening fingers, and he sagged to
the floor. Again crimson lightning laced the shadows; Haldane's body
jerked, and the air was raw with the hot, sickening stench of charred
flesh.

With an instinct born of bitter years, Chip had come to his knees
behind the shelter of the mahogany bar. But now his own flame-pistol
was in his hand, and a dreadful rage was mingled with the agony in his
heart. Reckless of results, he sprang to his feet, gun spewing livid
death into the shadows.

His blast found a mark. For an instant flame haloed a human face drawn
in inhuman pain. A heavy, sultry, bestial face, already puckered with
one long, ugly scar that ran from right temple to jawbone, now newly
scarred with the red brand of Chip's marksmanship.

Then, before Chip could fire again, came the rasp of pounding
footsteps. The man turned and fled. Chip bent over his fallen friend,
seeking, with hands that did not even feel the heat, fluttering life
beneath still smoldering cloth.

He felt--nothing. Johnny was dead.

A snarl of sheer animal rage burst from Chip's lips. Someone would pay
for this; pay dearly! Help was coming now. He himself would lead the
hue-and-cry that would track a foul murderer to his lair. He spun as
the footsteps drew nearer.

"Hurry!" he cried. "This way! Follow me--"

In a bound, he hurdled the bar, lingered at the door only long enough
to let the others mark his course. For they had burst into the room,
now, a full score of them. Excited, hard-bitten dogs of space,
quick-triggered and willing. Once more he cried for help.

"After him! Come on! He--"

And then--disaster struck! For a reedy voice broke from the van of the
mob. The voice of the Martian bartender.

"That's him!" he piped sibilantly. "That's the man! He's a desperate
criminal, wanted on four planets for murder! The Patrolman came to
arrest him--_and now he's murdered the Spacie_!"


                                  II

The stunning injustice of that accusation came close to costing Chip
Warren his life. For a split second he stood motionless in the doorway,
gaping lips forming denial. Words which were never to be uttered, for
suddenly a raw-boned miner wrenched a Moeller from its holster, leveled
and fired.

The hot tongue of death licked hungrily at the young spaceman's cheek,
scorched air crackled in his eardrums. Now was no time to squander
in vain argument. Chip ducked, spun, and hurled himself through the
doorway. There still remained one hope. That he might catch the real
murderer, and in that way clear himself....

But the door led to a small, deserted vestibule, and it to an alleyway
behind Xu'ul's Solarest. Viewing that maze of byways and passages, Chip
knew his hope was futile. There remained but one thing to do. Get out
of here. But quick!

It was no hard task. The labyrinth swallowed him as it had engulfed the
scarred killer; in a few minutes even the footsteps of his pursuers
could no longer be heard. And Chip worked his cautious way back to the
spaceport, and to the bin wherein was cradled the _Chickadee_.

Syd Palmer looked up in surprise as Chip let himself in the
electro-lock. The chubby engineer gasped, "Salvation, look what the cat
drug in! His high-flying Nibs! What's the matter, Chip? Night-life too
much for you?"

"Never mind that now!" panted Chip. "Is this tin can ready to roll?
Warm the hypos. We're lifting gravs--"

Palmer said anxiously, "Now, wait a minute! The men haven't quite
finished plating the hull, Chip!"

"Can't help that! We've got important business. In a very few
minutes--_Ahh!_ There he goes now!" Chip had gone to the _perilens_ the
moment he entered the ship; now he saw in its reflector that which he
had expected. The gushing orange spume of a spaceship roaring from its
cradle. "Hurry, Syd!"

There were a lot of things Syd Palmer wanted to ask. He wanted to know
_who_ went _where_; he was bursting with curiosity about the "important
business" which had brought his pal back from town in such a rush; his
keen eye also had detected a needle-gun burn on Chip's coat-sleeve. But
he was too good a companion to waste time now on such trivia.

"O.Q.," he snapped. "It's your pigeon!"

And he disappeared. They heard his voice calling to the workmen, the
scuff of equipment being disengaged from the _Chickadee's_ hull, the
thin, high whine of warming hypatomics. Salvation looked at Warren
quizzically.

"It smells," he ventured gently, "like trouble."

"It is trouble," Chip told him. "Plenty trouble!"

"In that case--" said the old man mildly--"I guess I'd better get the
rotor stripped for action." He stepped to the gunnery turret, dropped
the fore-irons and stripped their weapon for action. "'Be ye men of
peace,'" he intoned, "'but gird firmly thy loins for righteous battle!'
Thus saith the Lord God which is Jehovah. Selah!"

Then came Syd's cry from the depths of the hyporoom.

"All set, Chip! Lift gravs!"

Warren's finger found a stud. And with a gusty roar the _Chickadee_
rocketed into space on a pillar of flame.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two hours later, Chip was still following the bright pinpoint of
scarlet which marked the course of his quarry.

In the time that had elapsed since their take-off, he had told his
friends the whole story. When he told about the Lorelei, Salvation
Smith's seamy old features screwed up in a perplexed grimace. "A
woman pirate in the Belt, son? I find it hard to believe. Yet--" And
when he described the death of Johnny Haldane, anger smoldered in the
missionary's eyes, and Syd Palmer's hands knotted into tight, white
fists. Said Syd, "A man with a scar, eh? Well, we'll catch him sooner
or later. And when we do--" His tone boded no good to the man who had
slain an old and loved friend.

"As a matter of fact," offered Salvation, "we've got him now. Any time
you say the word, Chip. We're faster than he is. We can close in on him
in five minutes."

"I know," nodded Warren grimly. "But we won't do it--yet. I'm borrowing
a bit of Johnny's strategy. I've been plotting his course. As soon as
I'm sure of his destination, we'll take care of _him_. But our first
and most vital problem is to locate the Lorelei's hideaway."

Syd said, "That's all right with me, chum. I like a good scrap as much
as the next guy. Better, maybe. But this isn't our concern, strictly
speaking. What we ought to do is report this matter to the Space
Patrol, let them take care of it."

Salvation shook his head.

"That's where you're mistaken, Sydney. This is very much our concern.
So much so, in fact, that we dare not make port again until it's
cleared up. I think you have forgotten that it is not the scar-faced
man who is wanted for the killing of Haldane--but Chip!"

"B-but--" gasped Palmer--"b-but that's ridiculous! Chip and Johnny were
old buddies. Lifelong friends!"

"Nevertheless, the circumstantial evidence indicates Chip's guilt.
Twenty men saw him standing over Johnny's dead body, with a
flame-pistol in his hand. And the barkeep heard Johnny 'arrest' Chip
and accuse him of murder!"

Chip said ruefully, "That's right, Syd. It was only a joke, but it
backfired. The bartender thought Johnny meant it. He scooted out of
there like a bat out of Hades. I'm in it up to my neck unless we can
bring back evidence that Scarface actually did the killing. And that
may not be so easy."

He stirred restlessly. "But we'll cross that bridge when we come to
it. Right now our job is to keep this rat in sight. We've gone farther
already than I expected we would." He turned to the old preacher.
"Where do you think we're going, Padre? Out of the Belt entirely?"

"I've been wondering that myself, son. I don't know for sure, of
course, but it looks to me as if we're going for the Bog. If so, you'd
better keep a weather-eye peeled."

"The Bog!" Chip had never penetrated the planetoids so deeply before,
but he knew of the Bog by hearsay. All men did. A treacherous region of
tightly packed asteroids, a mad and whirling scramble of the gigantic
rocks which, aeons ago, had been a planet. Few spacemen dared penetrate
the Bog. Of those who did dare, few returned to tell the tale. "The
Bog! Say! I'd _better_ keep a sharp lookout!"

He turned to the _perilens_ once more, fastened an eye to its lens. And
then--

"Syd!" he cried. "Salvation! Look! She--she--!"

He pressed the plunger that transferred the _perilens_ image to the
central viewscreen. And as he did so, a phantom filled the area which
should have revealed yawning space, gay with the spangles of a myriad
glowing orbs. The vision of an unbelievably beautiful girl, the
golden-crowned embodiment of a man's fondest dreaming, eyes wide with
an indistinguishable emotion, arms stretched wide in mute appeal.

And from the throats of all came simultaneous recognition.

"_The Lorelei!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

At the same moment came a plea from the enchantress of space through
a second medium. For no reason anyone could explain, the ship's
_telaudio_ wakened to life; over it came to their ears the actual words
of the girl:

"_Help! Oh, help! Can anyone hear me? Help_--"

Even though he knew this to be only a ruse, a deliberate, dastardly
trap set for the unwary, Chip Warren's pulse leaped in hot response to
that desperate plea. Even with the warning of Johnny Haldane fresh in
his memory, some gallantry deep within him spurred him to the aid of
this lovely vision. Here was a woman a man could live for, fight for,
_die_ for! A woman like no other in the universe.

Then common sense came to his rescue. He wrenched his gaze from the
tempting shadow, cried: "Kill that wavelength! Tune the lens on
another beam, Syd!"

Palmer, bedazzled but obedient, spun the dial of the _perilens_.
Despite his vastly improved science Man had never yet succeeded in
devising a transparent medium through which to view the void wherein
he soared; the _perilens_ was a device which translated impinging
light-waves into a picture of that which lay outside the ship's hull.
When or where electrical disturbances existed in space, its frequency
could be changed for greater clarity. This was what Syd now attempted.

But to no avail! For it mattered not which cycle he tuned to--the
image persisted. Still on the viewscreen that pleading figure
beckoned piteously. And still the cabin rang to the prayers of that
heart-tugging voice:

"_Help! Oh, help! Can anyone hear me? Help_--"

Gone, now, was any fascination that thrilling vision might previously
have held for Chip Warren. Understanding of their plight dawned coldly
upon him, and his brow became dark with anger.

"_We're blanketed!_ Flying blind! Salvation, radio a general alarm!
Syd, jazz the hypos to max. Shift trajectory to fourteen-oh-three North
and loft ... fire No. 3 jet...."

He had hurled himself into the bucket-shaped pilot's seat; now
his fingers played the controls like those of a mad organist. The
_Chickadee_ groaned from prow to stern, trembled like a tortured thing
as he thrust it into a rising spiral.

It was a desperate chance he was taking. Increasing his speed thus, it
was certain he would be spotted by the man he had been following; the
flaming jets of the _Chickadee_ must form a crimson arch against black
space visible for hundreds--thousands!--of miles. Nor was there any way
of knowing what lay in the path Chip thus blindly chose. Titanic death
might loom on every side. But they had to fight clear of this spot of
blindness, clear their instruments....

And then it came! A jarring concussion that smashed against the prow
of the _Chickadee_ like a battering ram. Chip flew headlong out of his
bucket to spreadeagle on the heaving iron floor. He heard, above the
grinding plaint of shattered steel the bellowing prayer of Salvation
Smith:

"We've crashed! 'Into Thy hands, O Lord of old--'"

Then Syd's angry cry, "Crashed, hell! He's smashed us with a
tractor-blast!"

Chip stared at his companion numbly.

"But--but that's impossible! We're plated with ek! A tractor-cannon
couldn't hurt us--"

"_Half-plated!_" howled Syd savagely. "And those damn fools started
working from the stern of the _Chickadee_! We're vulnerable up front,
and that's where he got us! In a minute this can will be leaking like a
sieve. I'll get out bulgers. Hold 'er to her course, Chip!"

He dove for the lockers wherein were hung the space-suits, tore them
hastily from their hangers. Chip again spun the _perilens_ vernier. No
good! No space ... no stars ... just a beautiful phantom crying them to
certain doom. By now he was aware that from a dozen sprung plates air
was seeping, but he fought down despair. While there remained hope, a
man had to keep on fighting.

He scrambled back into the bucket-seat, experimented with controls that
answered sluggishly. Salvation had sprung to the rotor-gun, was now
angrily jerking its lanyard, lacing the void with death-dealing bursts
that had no mark. The old man's eyes were brands of fire, his white
hair clung wetly to his forehead. His rage was terrible to behold.

"'Yes, truly shall I destroy them!'" he cried, "'who loose their
stealth upon me like a thief from the night--'"

Then suddenly there came a second and more frightful blow. The
straining _Chickadee_ stopped as though pole-axed by a gigantic fist.
Stopped and shuddered and screamed in metal agony. This time inertia
flung Chip headlong, helpless, into the control racks. Brazen studs
took the impact of his body; crushing pain banded about his temples,
and a red wetness ran into his eyes, blurring and blinding him, burning.

For an instant there flamed before him a universe of incandescent
stars, weaving, shimmering, merging. The vision of a woman whose hair
was a golden glory....

After that--nothing!


                                  III

From a billion miles away, from a bourne unguessable thousands of
light-years distant, came the faint, far whisper of a voice. Nearer and
nearer it came, and ever faster, till it throbbed upon Chip's eardrums
with booming savagery.

"--coming to, now. Good! We'll soon find out--"

Chip opened his eyes, too dazed, at first, to understand the situation
in which he found himself. Gone was the familiar control-turret of the
_Chickadee_, gone the bulger into which he had so hastily clambered. He
lay on the parched, rocky soil of a--a something. A planetoid, perhaps.
And he was surrounded by a motley crew of strangers: scum of all the
planets that circle the Sun....

Then recollection flooded back upon him, sudden and complete. The
chase ... the call of the fateful Lorelei ... the crash! New strength,
born of anger, surged through him. He lifted his head.

"My--my companions?" he demanded weakly.

The leader of those who encircled him, a mighty hulk of a man, massive
of shoulder and thigh, black-haired, with an unshaven blue jaw,
raven-bright eyes and a jutting, aquiline nose like the beak of a hawk,
loosed a satisfied grunt.

"Ah! Back to normal, eh, sailor? Damn near time!"

Climbing to his feet sent a swift wave of giddiness through Chip--but
he managed it. He fought down the vertigo which threatened to overwhelm
him, and confronted the big man boldly.

"What," he stormed, "is the meaning of this?"

The giant stared at him for a moment, his jaw slack. Then his
raven-bright eyes glittered; he slapped a trunklike thigh and guffawed
in boisterous mirth.

"Hear that?" he roared to his companions. "Quite a guy, ain't he?
'What's the meanin' o' this?' he asks! Game little fightin' cock, hey?"
Then he sobered abruptly, and a grim light replaced the amusement in
his eyes. Here was not a man to be trifled with, Chip realized. His
tone assumed a biting edge. "The meanin' is, my bucko," he answered
mirthlessly, "that you've run afoul o' your last reef. Unless you have
a sane head on your shoulders, and you're willing to talk fast and
straight!"

"Talk?"

"Don't stall. We've already unloaded your bins. We found it. And a nice
haul, too. Thanks for lettin' us know it was on the way." The burly one
chuckled coarsely. "We'd have took it, anyway, but you helped matters
out by comin' to us."

Johnny Haldane had been right, then. Chip remembered his friend's
ominous warning. "--if your message was intercepted, you may have
played into the hands of--" He said slowly, "Then you _are_ the
Lorelei's men?"

"The who? Never mind that, bucko, just talk. That ekalastron--where did
it come from?"

And it occurred to Warren suddenly that although the big man _did_ hold
the whip hand, he was still not in possession of the most important
secret of all! While the location of the ekalastron mine remained a
secret, a deadlock existed.

"And if I won't tell--?" he countered shrewdly.

"Why, then, sailor--" The pirate leader's hamlike fists tightened, and
a cold light glinted in his eyes--"why, then I guess maybe I'll have to
beat it out o' you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He took a step forward. Chip, still unsteady on his feet, but feeling
his strength renew itself with each passing moment, braced for rough
encounter. But the moment of contest was not yet. For even as the big
man's companions drew back, grinning evilly, to form a ring about the
pair, rose a familiar voice from behind Chip.

"_Hold!_ 'Stay now the hand of wrath, yea, shalt thou restrain even
thine arm raised in striking lest His vengeance smite thee into dust!'"

A look of swift, incredulous dismay, sweeping across the giant's face,
vanished in an expression of unholy glee.

"Salvation!" he exclaimed exultantly. "It's Salvation Smith! So we meet
again!"

The circle parted, admitting newcomers. Syd and the old missionary
and the pirates who had dragged them from the broken _Chickadee_.
Chip thought that never before had he been so glad to lay eyes on his
two comrades. Events had followed so swiftly that he had had no time
to feel concern for them, but it was a relief to find them alive and
unharmed.

Nor had the crash sapped either of his valor. Syd's face was stubbornly
determined, and Salvation breathed raging defiance. He glanced once at
Chip, as if to assure himself the young spaceman was uninjured, then
turned to their captor.

"Aye, Salvation Smith!" he thundered. "And how came you to this new
rat's nest, Blacky Jordan?"

Blacky Jordan! The name touched the fringes of Chip Warren's memory,
tugged there fretfully. Then came recollection. Of course! Blacky
Jordan had been the chief lieutenant of Balder Sorenson ... the only
one of Sorenson's space-preying gang to escape when Lt. Russ Bartlett
of the Solar Postal Department had smashed the mail-robbers off Eros
two years ago!

The filthiest kind of a scoundrel, Blacky Jordan. A treacherous,
back-stabbing murderer who found no methods too low to achieve
the results he desired. Chip understood, now, why only one small,
frightened boy had ever returned to tell of the Lorelei's gang.

But--the Lorelei? Where was she? And in what way had Jordan earned the
allegiance of a girl like--

He snapped out of it abruptly. For Jordan's chunky frame had stiffened,
his raven-bright eyes narrowed to meager slits, and he was moving
forward, hands half-clenched at his sides in an anticipatory hunger.
His voice was low and hard.

"Salvation Smith! The psalm-singin' dog who ran me out of Mars Central!
I always said some day I'd get even for that! Well, now's the time!"

And suddenly he lunged, hands clawing for the older man's throat. But
they never found their mark. For, swiftly as he moved, Chip Warren
moved faster still. A step forward, a foot outthrust, an arm upraised,
spinning the man....

"_So!_" bellowed Jordan. "So you're still lookin' for trouble, bucko?
O.Q. I'll take care o' that mealy-mouthed space-parson later!"

He turned on Chip viciously; the blow he directed at the smaller man's
head would have felled an ox. But Chip was no ox. He was like a
panther as he gave with the blow, bobbed, weaved in underneath Jordan's
flailing arm, and came up with both fists driving like pistons.

A right to the heart, a short, jabbing left into the mid-section,
dropping the bigger man's guard--then a crashing right to the jaw! And--

Jordan went down!

       *       *       *       *       *

But not yet had Chip Warren fully recovered from the effects of his
recent shock. His blows had the power to hurt and sting, but they
lacked their accustomed effectiveness.

Scarcely had he touched the ground than Blacky Jordan was up again,
his beefy face a red mask of rage, his voice a roaring thunder. Like
an unleashed behemoth he hurled himself upon his slighter antagonist,
bulling Chip back by sheer bulk, smashing down Chip's guard with
sledge-hammer blows.

Even so, Chip gave more than he took. Even as he retreated, his fists
continued to dance in for stinging slashes at the other man's face,
heart, wind. And had the locale of their meeting been a sporting
ring, even yet he might have emerged the victor. But there was little
sporting spirit in those who watched.

The foot of a pirate gangster slipped between Chip's legs, tripping
him. As he stumbled backward, off balance, the tentacular paw of a
Martian whipped about his shielding arm. He was completely at the mercy
of the charging Jordan. Mercy was a word the black-haired one did not
know. With a bellow of triumph, he smashed both fists, left, right,
left again, into Chip's unprotected face. The blows throbbed home like
burning rivets. A dizzy nausea assailed Chip; he felt the rocky soil
springing up to meet him.

And now it was Syd who, angered beyond discretion, would have leaped
forward to take up his friend's fight. But he could not. A dozen arms
locked him in a vise of flesh; he was held motionless, straining
futilely, as Jordan transferred his attentions to Salvation Smith.

This was no battle at all. Given a gun, the old war-horse was a match
for any man in the System. But age had taken its toll of his strength;
Jordan's first spite-filled punch smashed down his feeble defenses. In
no time at all he was on the ground, stunned, bruised, shaken, unable
to defend himself even against the lashing kicks of the pirate's boots.
And as he drained the dregs of his vengeance, Blacky Jordan laughed.

"I've waited a long time for this, Salvation Smith!" he gloated. "You
kicked me out of Mars; now it's my turn--"

With deliberate savagery he raised his thick, lead-soled boot, buried
it in the old man's side. And again. And yet again. Salvation moaned
and tried to rise, failed. Chip Warren, shaking off the dark clouds
that had blinded him, got to his knees uncertainly, managed one
lurching step toward the pirate. And then--

"_For shame!_" A voice that must be born of delirium. A voice
lilting-clear as crystal, golden as dawn, valiant and proud as a banner
flying. "You--you monster! I always knew you were a cur, Blacky Jordan,
but I didn't know you'd stoop to _this_--"

And through the circle burst a figure Chip knew ... the figure of a
girl with the face of an angel. But an avenging angel now, with her
halo of golden hair cascading about her shoulders, her warm, ripe lips
tightset with scorn and anger. Like a dancing gleam she raced between
Jordan and his victim; her white hand raised once and descending
stingingly upon the pirate's cheek ... then, with a little cry of
sympathy, she was on her knees beside Salvation Smith.

It was--the girl of the lens! The Lorelei!


                                  IV

What happened then was not in any wise comprehensible to Chip Warren.

Had Blacky Jordan turned viciously on the latecomer, striking her
down as brutally as he had Chip and Salvation--that would have been
understandable. Or had he meekly begged forgiveness--that, too, Chip
could have understood. For the girl was--had to be!--either one of two
things. Servant or mistress of the pirate chieftain.

But Jordan did neither of these things. Instead, he fingered his cheek
where it flamed dull scarlet against brown, and his eyes were cloudy
pools of anger and some contrasting emotion Chip could not name. His
fingers twitched, his mouth worked. Then something like a shrug stirred
his shoulders; he turned to his silently watching followers.

"Well--what are you standin' around here for? You got work to do, ain't
you? Well, get goin', then!"

With obedient alacrity the mob dispersed. Chip had his first clear,
unobstructed view of the terrain upon which the _Chickadee_ had
crashed. He saw that his guess had been a good one. It was an asteroid.
And judging by the swift dip of the horizon, the visible arch of the
distant landscape, a rather small one. Barely a mile in diameter. A
mere sliver in the colossal débris of the Belt.

But, then, whence came its gravity? Though he wore no bulger he felt
comfortably secure on this tiny fragment of matter. And how did a
floating rock of this size maintain an atmosphere of Earth normal?

These were perplexing questions, but there was no opportunity now to
solve them. For the girl had helped Salvation to his feet, had lent him
a shoulder in support, and now was moving away. Jordan glared at her
pettishly.

"An' just where do you think you're goin'?"

The Lorelei's gaze did not meet his, it passed clear through him as if
he did not exist. Her voice was icy cold.

"Stand aside, please! I'm taking him below."

And again Blacky Jordan backed down! As before, his manner toward
the girl was baffling. It was peremptory, yet at the same time
conciliatory; at once truculent and submissive! He gave in with a
graceless shrug.

"Oh, all right! Take 'em _all_ below. I can't waste any more time
on 'em right now. But I'll see 'em again later. Especially _you_--"
He jerked his head toward Salvation, then stared thoughtfully at
Chip--"and you, too, bucko. Yeah. Me and you is goin' to have a nice
little talk later on."

And he stalked away. Hope flared in Chip that now he might find a
chance to improve their lot. Not one of the men was guarding them.
Only this girl, and she was preoccupied with Salvation--

But--his hope was vain. No gaoler needs guard prisoners immured on a
desert isle. Their weapons had been stripped from them, their ship was
a tangled heap of wreckage. And there was no other space vessel in
sight.

Chip looked at Syd. Palmer's shake of the head confessed an equal
bewilderment. Perhaps the answer to this mad situation lay where the
girl led. The two spacemen followed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their way took them into a tunnel which sloped for a few hundred
yards into the earth, then debouched into a small cavern. Into the
far wall of this was set a grilled gateway which, when opened by the
girl, revealed--an elevator. Into this she helped Salvation. Chip and
Syd, delayed by the same doubt, held back. The girl, noting their
hesitation, addressed them directly for the first time.

"This way," she said. "Come on! Quickly!"

Chip said suspiciously, "Just a minute, sister. How do we know this
isn't a trick of some kind--"

Her eyes flamed electric-blue, and her voice cracked like a whip.

"Don't be a fool! Get in here--and hurry! When he thinks it over he may
change his mind. We're getting away with murder!"

It didn't make sense, but there was nothing to gain by lingering here.
The two entered the conveyance, the girl pressed a button and concealed
motors whined as they began to descend swiftly. But the last word was
still Chip's.

"That's just what you _have_ been getting away with," he acknowledged
grimly, "but you're nearing the end of your rope now--Lorelei!"

In the semidarkness, the girl's eyes were pools of liquid surprise.

"Getting away with--end of--I don't understand?"

"Murder!" gritted Chip. "Murder and piracy. A dozen spacecraft within
the past two months, scuttled and every man of their crews done to
death. But your siren-song won't tempt many more, Lorelei. The Space
Patrol is on to your alluring little trap. You may finish _us_ off, but
the battle fleet will find you eventually, and when it does--"

He didn't finish his prophecy, for the elevator came to rest; the door
opened. And peering in at them, hurrying forward to greet them and take
the sagging weight of the aged missionary from the girl's arm, was a
white-haired old man.

"Alison!" he cried. "You're back safely! Thank the Lord! You shouldn't
have gone above. It's dangerous, child, dangerous to mingle with such
scoundrels! Who are these--?"

And then the girl did a surprising thing. A particularly surprising
thing, inasmuch as a few minutes ago, facing Blacky Jordan like a
golden Valkyr, her boldness had won from Chip Warren a grudging
admiration. She fled to the old man's side, buried her face in his
shoulder and cried:

"Daddy--this piracy, this murder and bloodshed--these men think _I_ am
part of it!"

The old man said, "Now, now, dear!" soothingly, and glared reproof
at his visitors. "There must be some mistake--" And to the others he
suggested, "Gentlemen, will you come with me? We must get to the bottom
of this."

Their journey this time was short. Through one door to a series of
warm, well-lighted chambers. But stupefying. Because here, at what Chip
realized must be the very core of the tiny planetoid, had been carved
from solid rock quarters that matched, in efficiency and luxury, any
elaborate dwelling on the face of a civilized planet!

Comfortable living chambers were here, furnished in excellent taste.
And through the doorways leading to adjacent rooms Chip glimpsed
white-tiled compartments wherein were visible rows upon rows of beakers
and flasks, retorts, motor-units, experimental apparatus. Laboratories,
beautifully arranged and maintained! He stared at his host in
astonishment.

"How--?" he stammered. "Who--?"

"Will you be seated, gentlemen?" suggested the older man. "There!
Now, let us get to the root of this frightful affair. You accused my
daughter of implication--?"

Chip said, "We--we had ample reason to, sir. First let me introduce
myself and my friends. I am Chip Warren ... this is my friend and
shipmate, Syd Palmer ... and this is Salvation Smith...."

"Salvation Smith! Not really? I've heard of you, Padre," said the
old man. "You were engaged in bringing spiritual light to the
Martian outlanders at about the time I was supplying Mars with a
more--er--mechanical type--"

Salvation lifted his head suddenly.

"Grayland Blaine! Dr. Grayland Blaine. The greatest astrophysicist in
the System!"

"Thank you, Padre. You flatter me. And this is my daughter, Alison. But
now--to business. You were saying--?"

"Tell him, Chip," bade Salvation. "I don't know how Dr. Blaine and his
daughter got involved with Blacky Jordan. But I know one thing--that
they're as innocent of any wrongdoing as any pair alive."

Chip needed no second invitation. A great gladness was upon him that
the girl now listening to his words was not what he had feared and
believed. Eagerly he embarked on his story, told them everything from
the moment of his meeting Haldane to the moment Alison Blaine had so
fortuitously appeared in time to save Salvation.

But if his spirits were high, those of his listeners seemed to sink
lower with each word. When he had finished, a gloom hung heavily upon
Dr. Blaine's brow. He looked at his daughter and sighed.

"It is worse than we feared and suspected, my dear. They _are_ using
my inventions, but not for the benefit to mankind I intended. Instead,
they have distorted them to their own foul purposes. And we are
helpless to stop them!"

"Your--your inventions?" repeated Syd Palmer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Blaine nodded somberly. "Yes. You say you saw Alison's face in your
_perilens_? And heard her voice calling for help?"

"On every cycle! That was the amazing part. Every wavelength carried
her image, and her voice came through in spite of the fact that the
audio was not turned on."

"But naturally," assented the old man. "That is the principle on
which it operates. I call it the 'omniwave.' It is a new method of
superimposing sound and light waves on receptors in such a way that
they can be transmitted through any medium over a series of overlapping
wavelengths ranging from 30 kilocycles down to 4,000 Angstrom units. It
requires only a supersensitive iconoscope of my own devising, coupled
with radiant-projectors--"

"It blanketed," Chip told him, "every instrument on our ship. We
tried to tune it out so we could see where we were going, but it was
impossible. The result was we were easy prey for Jordan's gang. They
clamped a tractor on us, crashed us on this asteroid. Only thing I
don't understand," he frowned, "is how we managed to get within their
range. I was blind-flying, true. But I forejetted the _Chickadee_ to
avoid the possibility of ramming any asteroid--"

Again Dr. Blaine shook his head.

"You would have had a hard time avoiding this one, my boy. Because, you
see, it was not sitting stationary. It was moving toward you."

"Moving toward--Oh, no, Doctor! Impossible. The asteroids follow a
clockwise course about the Sun!"

"Not this one," denied the old man. "Because this is no ordinary
asteroid, Warren. This whole rock, this mass of matter in space--is a
navigable spaceship!"

Salvation's jaw dropped open. He said in hallowed tones, "'Surely the
Lord worketh in wondrous ways His marvels to unfold!' You said--a
spaceship, Dr. Blaine?"

Blaine's shoulders drooped dispiritedly.

"Yes. This is the great invention on which I have labored in secret for
years. The invention which I had hoped would prove a glorious boon to
man. The construction of that one type of space-voyager which could be
destroyed by only a most devastating catastrophe.

"As you all know well, the major hazard of spaceflight is that the
craft employed, however strongly constructed, is ever but a mote as
compared with those hurtling celestial bodies it may chance to meet
in space. Thus the efforts of science have ever been to cut down the
collision risk. The Moran deflector ... the permalloy hood ... the
automatic warp ... these are a few of the devices used. With some
success, yes; but--there are failures, too. Each year more than a
hundred ships crash headlong, or are crashed into by rogue asteroids,
meteor swarms, bits of cosmic débris of mountainous size.

"Patrol lightships have been placed in those locations recognized to
be most dangerous to space travel. But you know that the toll taken by
relentless Nature on these gallant ships is terrible.

"I therefore dreamed that Man might build a gigantic lightship from a
solid asteroid! A rock so large that no tiny meteor could damage it,
one of sufficient mass to repel the advance of rogue asteroids. To the
accomplishment of this I bent my efforts. You are within the result."

"You mean," Chip demanded, "this entire planetoid is equipped with
rockets? It can fly itself?"

"Exactly. With an atomblast my laborers hollowed out living quarters,
control chambers. At one-eighth mile intervals jets have been installed
in the asteroid. These are fed from the central explosion chamber.
In addition, gravity and atmosphere of Earth normal constant are
maintained, when the planetoid is at rest, by means of energy-warp
accumulators."

The old man sighed. "It was a fond dream. But just as it neared
fruition, came tragedy. Blacky Jordan's pirate gang, by sheer chance,
landed on the _Aurora_--the name of my cosmic craft. Trusting fool
that I am, I made them welcome, took them into my refuge and proudly
displayed its mechanism."

Chip nodded.

"I can guess the rest. They took over. Since then they've held you
prisoners here, and used this as their base. And the image of Alison--"

"A recording," explained Blaine, "made when she attempted, vainly,
to call for help. Jordan was clever enough to realize its value. Now
whenever he sights a craft which he wishes to ravage, he tempts it
within range by playing the visual record. When the unwary ship is
drawn near enough, it finds itself blanketed, as you were. And Jordan
then smashes the _Aurora_ into the hapless vessel."

Salvation ventured, "And your laborers? Dead?"

"All of them. Jordan follows the ancient principle of all unprincipled
rogues. 'Dead men tell no tales.' The only reason Alison and I are
still alive is that he fears he may some day need my knowledge. And
Alison--"

The girl spoke for herself. Softly enough, but her eyes were brittle
and challenging. "Alison lives because the brutish fool fancies himself
as a Don Juan."

It was a complete giveaway that this simple statement should strike
the spark of Chip's anger more vehemently than any other. His brow
darkened, and he came to his feet with a roar.

"What! You mean that he actually dares--"

"Steady, son!" That was Salvation Smith. Age might have taken its toll
on the missionary's strength, but not his recuperative powers. The old
man seemed to have completely recovered from the effects of the beating
he had taken a short while before. There was even the thin ghost of a
smile upon his lips.

"The young lady seems to be quite capable of taking care of herself.
Our job, as I see it, is to wrest control of the _Aurora_ from Blacky
Jordan and his gang. Dr. Blaine, surely you must have some plan?"

Dr. Blaine shook his head miserably. "I fear not. I built the _Aurora_;
I know every nook and cranny of her. But it does me no good. Jordan is
complete master of the vital working parts of the asteroid. Alison and
I are virtual prisoners in this one, harmless compartment, separated
by tons of solid rock from the machine chambers. If we could regain
control of those rooms, of course--"

"Well," demanded Chip belligerently, "why can't we? There are five of
us now. Together we should be able to force our way into--"

"Into," Dr. Blaine told him morbidly, "an early grave. You
underestimate Jordan's savagery, Warren. Alison and I have lived on
sufferance only. You and your companions have continued to exist only
because you have a secret he would give much to possess. Let us make
one hostile move, and he will have no compunctions whatsoever against
destroying us all. And he has both the men and the weapons with which
to do it."

"Nevertheless," gritted Chip, "there must be _some_ way. And by the
Seven Sacred Stars--"

"Shhh!" hissed Syd warningly. "Someone outside!"

True, the hum of the elevator had sounded and ceased. Now the latch
clicked, and one of Jordan's men stared at them suspiciously from the
doorway. His eyes swept the group, singled out Chip Warren.

"You," he said. "Come along. The chief wants to see you."


                                   V

As Dr. Blaine had said, the apartment in which he and Alison had been
isolated was far removed from the vital power-rooms of the _Aurora_.
Chip's guide prodded him surlily into the elevator, to the surface,
across a quarter mile of ore-reddened rock, then down into a similar
shaft. But this time as they descended in an elevator Chip could
hear an incessant humming murmur betraying the presence of nearby,
tremendous hypatomic motors.

Stepping from the cage he stood in a corridor upon which opened a
number of doors clearly marked POWER ROOM, STORAGE, SUPPLIES. But it
was through an unmarked doorway his captor motioned him. Chip found
himself in a huge, luxuriously appointed control-turret, at the
plot-desk of which lounged Blacky Jordan. Another man, back turned to
Chip, was studying the dial controls.

Jordan nodded to Chip's guide. "O.Q., you can beat it now. Well,
Phipps--is this the guy?"

"Phipps" turned, and at the sight of him an unforgotten flame of hatred
rekindled in Warren's heart. For the man's face was newly swathed in
bandages, but by the apish droop of his shoulders, the malignant gleam
that darted from his tiny deepset eyes, by the cicatriced twist of his
partly covered lips, Chip knew him. It was Scarface, the eavesdropper
of Xu'ul's Solarest, murderer of Johnny Haldane, the living bait by
which they had been lured into this trap.

Chip's breath panted from his lips in a tiny explosion of rage. He took
two swift paces forward, then stopped, staring into the ugly maw of
Jordan's leveled Moeller.

"Hold it, bucko," drawled Jordan. "Don't start nothin' you can't
finish. Grab a seat, there, and calm down." Then, as Chip sank
impotently into the designated chair, "There, that's better. No reason
we three can't be chummy, is there? Like bugs in a rug." He chuckled
and turned again to Phipps. "Then it _is_ him, huh?"

Scarface nodded, his voice muffled beneath layers of bandage. "It's
him, Chief. A whole mountain of ekalastron, he said. Only I didn't hear
him say where. And after that the Spacie was going to swear him in as a
deputy, and they was going to come hunting for us--"

"Yeah, I know. Only he got a sort of a surprise when he done it. Didn't
you, sailor?"

Chip said in a voice that he struggled to keep level. "The game's not
played yet, Jordan. I've still got a hand to draw to."

"Sure," grinned the pirate chieftain, "but you got yours to get, and
I've already got mine. Aces full. Now look here, bucko--" He bent
forward, and his voice assumed a wheedling tone--"They ain't no sense
in us two scrapping. We got off on the wrong foot together, that's
all's the trouble with us. You ain't got nothin' against me, and I
ain't got nothin' against you. To tell the truth, I kinda _like_ you.
You got guts. I got respect for anybody that'll stand up and swap
punches even when the deck's stacked against him. Now, you strike me as
being a right sensible guy. I've got a little proposition to make you--"

He paused, and Chip's eyes narrowed as every nerve in his body quivered
with raw dislike. But he capped the rising flood within him. It was
wisdom in this crisis to test every opening which presented itself.

"Go on," said Chip. "I'm listening."

"Good! Now, you just made the biggest discovery any man in space ever
made. A mountain of ekalastron. Right?"

"I'm not saying," parried Chip. "But if I did?"

"Oh, you _did_, bucko! Well, listen. Here's the proposition. I got a
nice little organization here. Fifty good men. Maybe they ain't the
cream o' society--" Jordan chuckled--"but they're as good fightin' men
as ever lifted gravs.

"I've also got, thanks to Doc Blaine's dopiness, the biggest, toughest,
hardest-to-lick spaceship that ever fired a jet. It can stand up
against any cruiser in the fleet. Matter of fact, the only thing that
keeps us from becomin' the most powerful pirate organization in Space
is the Patrol. The _Aurora_ could fight off one, two, maybe as much
as a half dozen of their battle ships--but you know how Spacies are.
When they get all hot and bothered about something, they don't mess
around with small-time stuff. They call out the whole damn fleet. And
I'm frank in admittin', bucko, that's why we've had to hide out so far,
concealin' ourselves in the Bog like we was just an ordinary asteroid."

"So?" said Chip.

"So how's about you and me throwin' in together? You tell me where this
here mine of ekalastron is. We'll fly out there and work it and get
enough ek to armor-plate this whole damn asteroid."

"This whole--!" Warren started. What proposition he had expected
from the outlaw he did not know, but certainly it was nothing so
magnificently fantastic as this. And yet--his brow cudgeled. Was it so
fantastic, after all? Every chemist knew that element No. 97 was one
of the most malleable of all metals. A thousand tons of it, girdling
the _Aurora_ to a thickness of only a cobweb veil, would undoubtedly
convert the asteroid into an impregnable battleship, a superdreadnaught
that could defy the combined assault of every Patrolship in the void!

       *       *       *       *       *

Blacky Jordan was staring at him eagerly. "Well, how about it, bucko?
It's a good idea, ain't it?"

Chip said tentatively, "It's an--idea, all right. But how about me,
Jordan? What do _I_ get out of this?"

The burly one slapped his thigh delightedly. "Now you're beginning to
talk like a man, bucko! That's the sort of thing I like to hear. What
do you get out of this? I'll tell you. I already said I kinda like you,
didn't I? Well--I like you enough that I'd like to see you become my
Number One man. Throw in with me and you'll be the big boss around
here ... next to Blacky Jordan, o' course. Together we'll be an
unbeatable combination."

"And the others? The Blaines and Syd Palmer and Salvation?"

"The Blaines will stay with us. You never can tell when we're going
to need the old man's brains again. And the girl--well--" Jordan
grinned--"She's a bit of a hellcat, but I been workin' on her, and
she'll come around in time. I got plans for that girl, bucko. Who
knows, maybe one of these days she may listen to reason and throw in
with us? And then you and me and her will be a trio. As for Palmer--you
can do whatever you want. If he'll play ball, O.Q. If he won't, we'll
land him safe on some outpost. He don't know enough to do us any harm,
and by the time he finds his way back to civilization we'll have what
we want."

"And Salvation?"

Blacky Jordan's good humor vanished. A dark light glittered in his
eyes. "Well, now, I hope we ain't goin' to have no trouble about
that, bucko. But I got an old score to settle with Salvation Smith.
Only--only, maybe if you're willin' to be agreeable, I'll even go so
far as to meet you halfway on _that_, too. Well, what do you say?"

Chip knew what he wanted to say. The answer had trembled on his tongue
from the moment the outlaw started speaking. Only a violent effort of
will-power had kept him from surging to his feet, hurling his fist
into the pirate's face. But that way, he realized, lay madness. So far
Blacky Jordan had been astonishingly conciliatory. But Chip knew, as
did the pirate, that if this peaceful means of gaining his end were
unavailing, Jordan had at his disposal other means of learning the
secret he desired.

Chip was bolstered, too, by one bit of knowledge Blacky Jordan did not
possess: that the ekalastron mine was _already_ occupied by a strongly
armed corps of the Uranus Space Control. But it would not do to reveal
this now. Neither would it do to pledge false allegiance nor proffer
blunt refusal. The only other alternative was to stall for time. This
Chip did. He stroked his jaw thoughtfully.

"This is pretty sudden," he hesitated. "I hardly know what to say,
Jordan. Could I have a little while to think it over?"

Jordan rose from his desk with the toothy grin of one who sees his plan
already half accomplished.

"Sure, bucko! Take all the time you want. Take a half an hour if you
like. I got a few things to do, anyhow. I'll just roll along and take
care of them. You stay here and make up your mind. And, Phipps--you
stay here and keep an eye on Mr. Warren," Jordan grinned. "Not that
I don't trust you, you understand, bucko. You and me's going to be
buddies. But you might want to play double sol, or somethin'. Well--see
you later!" And with a wide anticipatory grin on his lips, the big man
lumbered from the room.

But barely had he disappeared than happened that which was most
stunning of all which had befallen Chip Warren. Phipps, with an agility
surprising in one so apishly squat, scurried across the room, and
listened until the whine of the elevator advised him the coast was
clear. Then he spun to Chip.

"Listen, Warren," he husked, "I gotta talk fast; are you for his plan
or ain't you?"

Warren stared at the man in numb astonishment. "Why, I--I--" he
faltered. "What are you getting at?"

"Because if you're for his plan _and him_," hurried Scarface, "I'm
through talking. But if you're for his plan and _against_ him, maybe
you and I can do a little private business."

"Private business?" Chip was still puzzled.

"Private business?"

"Strictly _ongtree-new_," grinned Phipps evilly, "I don't mind telling
you, Warren, I'm fed up with the way I been kicked around by Blacky
Jordan. I'm supposed to be his right hand man, but I'm one of those
right hands that never knows what the left hand's doing. I run all the
risks, like going into civilization for supplies and taking care of
that space-cop, for instance, and Jordan gets all the gravy. Not only
that, but he'd rat on me in a minute if it would put one bean in his
soup. Like he just done a few minutes ago; talking about making you
his chief partner when I've been his buddy and done his dirty work for
years.

"Well, I'm sick of it, see? And I'm pulling out. What I want to know
is--if I take care of Blacky Jordan, can you and me make a dicker like
the one he propositioned you on?"


                                  VI

Chip stared at the man with a sort of sick distaste in his mouth. He
did not like Blacky Jordan. The outlaw was coarse, brutal, bestial. But
it had to be said to Jordan's credit that his villainy was at least
open and aboveboard; not such treacherous, skulking infamy as this.

Chip said contemptuously, "Aren't you taking an awful chance, Phipps?
Suppose I were to tell Jordan about this proposition of yours?"

Phipps' leer was the more vicious because it marred only the visible
half of his face.

"I ain't taking no chance, Warren. 'Cause if you're agreeable, I'll
set the wheels moving. I've got _my_ followers, too. There won't be
no Blacky Jordan to worry about. If you _ain't_ agreeable, well--"
He patted the Moeller holster at his side with a sinister sort of
affection--"I can always tell Blacky you tried to escape, you know."

Chip Warren could restrain himself no longer. For fifteen minutes he
had held his ever-fiery emotions in check. Now his lips spat venomous
loathing. "Why, you--you rat!" he growled. "You filthy, contemptible
cur! I'd as soon form a partnership with a Venusian marsh-snake! Oh! So
_that's_ your game!"

He cried aloud in swift alarm as Scarface, stung by his scathing
refusal, reached for his Moeller. Like a striking serpent the squat
man's hands darted to his holster, but Chip, too, was in motion, and
even more swiftly. The young spaceman left his feet in a diving tackle;
his shoulder smashed Phipps' knees bruisingly, his clawing hand locked
around the pirate's straining wrist.

They hit the floor with a crash, struggled there silently, writhing
like octopi locked in deadly embrace. Phipps brought his knee up hard
into Warren's groin, shaking Chip with a sudden, violent nausea. But
still Chip clung desperately to the other man's wrist. The adrenalin of
emotion pumping through his veins broomed away his weakness; he lashed
out again and yet again for his antagonist's chin, putting every ounce
of power behind his blows.

But somehow Phipps' hand managed to to wriggle free. In that
second, death menaced Chip with flaming certainty. An instant more
and the world he knew would have dissolved forever in coruscant
oblivion. But once more, with desperate savagery, his fist sought his
antagonist ... and this time found its mark! A sledge of pain shattered
Chip's knuckles. He heard a rasping grate of bone as the scarred one's
jaw collapsed. A gust of withering heat scorched past his shoulder, and
Phipps flew backward across the room. His head hit the angle of a metal
cabinet. There came the sickening crunch of yielding bone. Phipps' body
shuddered once--and lay still.

Chip pulled himself to his feet, heart pounding with furious triumph.
Then suddenly the light of battle died from his eyes, and a look of
horror took its place as he realized what he had done. Never in this
world would he convince Blacky Jordan that Phipps' own treachery had
brought about his death. The pirate's retribution for this deed would
be swift and violent.

The fat was in the fire now. Somehow he must warn his friends. Chip
spun, stared avidly at the controls about him, found the one he sought:
a telaudio unit. There was not time to single out the key which would
give him a private line to Dr. Blaine's quarters. He depressed the
all-circuit plunger, cried desperately, "Dr. Blaine! Salvation! Can you
hear me?"

An answer came back instantly in Syd's voice. "We hear you, Chip.
What's up?"

"Find some way to defend yourselves! And hurry! I've just fought
Scarface and killed him, and the heat's on!"

"The--the _what_?"

"The heat's on, I said! They'll be after us in no time. _There!_" An
ominous, all-too-familiar whining sound came dimly to Chip's ears. "I
hear him now. Jordan's coming back. Wait a minute!"

He leaped to Phipps' body, snatched the Moeller from the dead man's
hand, then sprang to the door, locked it. It was a feeble defense, he
knew, but it offered him at least a moment of respite. Came the grate
of Jordan's feet in the corridor outside, then a hammering on the door,
and the pirate's querulous roar.

"Hey, what's going on in there? Phipps! Open up!"

And then--a miracle occurred. For when Chip deserted the control panel,
he had released the telaudio key. And theoretically all communication
between himself and his friends was broken. But now sounded a high,
singing note in the air, a note that took on cadence, a cadence forming
itself into words, words that were the excited voice of Syd Palmer!

"Chip, boy! Can you hear me? You all right! The heat _is_ on! _That's
the answer!_ For God's sake, find a bulger, quick! Climb into it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There were cabinets in the room. To these Chip Warren raced, tearing
at their handles with avid fingers, wrenching them open with violent
disregard for whatever precious manuscripts, intricate and valuable
apparatus, tumbled out to mingle in damaged heterogeneity on the floor.
In the fourth cabinet he found that which he sought, a quartzofabricoid
bulger.

Into this he flung himself, keeping a wary eye upon the door, about
whose lock was already glowing a smoky circle of scarlet as Blacky
Jordan, belatedly realizing there was something amiss, melted the
lock with his Moeller. With a final _zzzp!_ Chip closed the seam of
his space suit, with a final twist of the hand screwed into place its
transparent helmet. Thus, like some bloated and grotesque denizen
of ocean depths, Moeller leveled and ready, he stood waiting to
meet Blacky Jordan in their third, and this time necessarily final,
encounter.

But Blacky Jordan never stepped into that room! The door never opened.
What happened outside Chip Warren did not know nor could he guess, but
that it was something fearful and beyond belief he could tell by the
cry which in that moment ripped from the outlaw's throat.

"_Oh, Lord! Fire! I'm on fire!_"

And suddenly the clamor of his footsteps beat _away_ from the door,
down the hallway! Chip heard the big man hurl himself into the
elevator, heard the spiraling whine of the lift rising. Wondering, yet
cautious, he stepped to the door, eased it open. His hearing had not
beguiled him. The corridor was empty and the elevator gone. Even as he
stood there, dazed and uncomprehending, that eerie voice from nowhere
again smote his ears. This time the cadence resolved itself into the
reverberant tones of Salvation Smith, roaring in throaty triumph.

"Lo, with Thy lightnings Thou hast destroyed them, O Lord! Chip,
lad--you hear me? The hour of retribution has come! They cower like
craven lice on the flesh of the sphere that hid them. Go to the control
panel, boy; press the studs numbered 1 and 12. Haste, while we have
them at our mercy!"

Obediently Chip sprang to the board, plunged the studs Salvation had
named. As he did so, the steady hum of the hypatomic deepened. There
came the ponderous _thud!_ of a rocket jet exploding. Then another.
Then almost at once the first again.

The floor beneath him shook, throbbed, trembled. Chip was conscious of
a curious lightness, a sense of whirling giddiness that he recognized
almost immediately. He had experienced the sensation once before
when a spaceship in which he had been a passenger was thrown into
axial revolution by the titanic tug of Jupiter. Clinging for support
to whatever offered itself, he moved with difficulty to the room's
vision-plates, opened the circuit that revealed the exterior of the
_Aurora_, and--what he saw brought a cry to his lips. A cry in which
was mingled triumph and awe and almost a certain horror-stricken,
involuntary pity.

His depression of studs 1 and 12, firing-jets at opposite poles of
the _Aurora_, had spun the tiny planetoid into axial rotation. It was
whirling, now, like a gigantic top in the void. And from its surface,
no longer held captive by the feeble artificial gravity, were hurtling
the bodies of those whom a moment before had so proudly and confidently
strode the asteroid's surface!

Chip saw one sight which would haunt him forever. Blacky Jordan
emerging from the surface tunnel ... being whisked from the bosom of
the _Aurora_ as if by an invisible hand ... drawn violently to his
vacuum tomb. For the split second there was an expression of terrible,
uncomprehending fear on the pirate's face--then there was neither face
nor pirate. Just the black, inexorable depths of space, studded with
the myriad planetoid shards which formed the Bog.

       *       *       *       *       *

Afterward Chip Warren said to Dr. Blaine, "I'm afraid Doctor, that if
we're ever to set foot again in any civilized port, you must take us
there. After the _Aurora_ stopped revolving I went top-side to look
for the _Chickadee_. I thought we might be able to repair it. But it's
gone, just like Blacky Jordan and his crew. Everything on the surface
of the planetoid was whisked away."

Dr. Blaine said, "I intend to do just that, Chip. As a matter of fact,
Syd is already plotting our course. But I hope that after we've landed
you, that won't be the last we'll ever see of you. Alison and I owe you
an undying debt of gratitude. Had it not been for you--"

"You were magnificent!" breathed the girl. And looking at her, finding
with an incredulous surprise a look in her eyes which more than echoed
her father's wish, Chip knew Dr. Blaine would not, indeed, easily avoid
seeing more of him. For he had heard the Lorelei's call and found it
sweet.

Salvation, intercepting the look that passed between them, laughed.
Flushing, Chip took refuge in denial of Dr. Blaine's claim. "Thank
you, sir, but I'm afraid you overestimate our part in besting Jordan.
Or at least _my_ part. All _I_ did was press the plunger. I wouldn't
have known to do that if you folks hadn't told me. And I _still_ don't
understand what caused Jordan and all of the rest of his men who were
below ground to race for the surface of the asteroid."

Dr. Blaine said, "That was Sydney's idea." But Syd contradicted him
peremptorily. "Nope! I'm a great one for passing the buck. Oh, I
thought of the means, maybe. But it was Chip who gave me the idea."

"Me?"

"Uh-huh. When you shouted 'the heat's on!' Remember? We four had
been down here cudgeling our brains for some way to get the draw on
Blacky Jordan, but we overlooked a hell of an obvious trick until you
mentioned _heat_. Then all of a sudden Doc Blaine and I saw the answer
at the same time. Fortunately he had an omniwave unit there in his
laboratory and that did the trick. See?"

"No," confessed Chip frankly. "I don't."

"Well, it's really very simple. Doc Blaine told us the omniwave
transmitted every length of radiation from 30 kilos down to 4000
Angstroms. In other words, everything from long radio waves down to
visible light rays."

"So?" said Chip.

"So, dopey-puss," said Syd amiably, "of course, that includes the
_infra-red rays_. Heat waves. Waves that have the power to speed up
molecular velocity in bodies. Or--" He grunted satisfaction--"hot
enough to create a raging fever in any human being on the asteroid who
wasn't dressed in a spacesuit!

"Well, right away I asked Doc Blaine how he'd taken care of that
problem in distributing his omniwave radiation, and he said he had
always used a cutout to eliminate that danger. So we just quietly
removed the cutout, and turned on the omniwave full force, and--" Syd
shrugged--"burnt those babies to a crisp! They didn't even know what
ailed them! All they knew was that they were as hot as boiled potatoes,
and wanted to get outside where they could cool off. The rest of us,
dressed in bulgers, were O.Q."

"And," said Chip, "when they got outside we revolved the _Aurora_,
and--"

"_Finis!_" agreed Syd cheerfully, "and a good day's work, too, if you
ask me. Incidentally, Chip, while we're on the subject--"

Syd was a very talkative guy. He would have undoubtedly continued this
harangue for a couple more hours. But at that moment his eyes happened
to intercept another glance passing between Alison Blaine and Chip
Warren. It was a glance that meant things. It was a glance that meant
that maybe some day in the not-too-far-distant future the Lorelei might
yet lure, but not necessarily to destruction, a mariner who had flown
thousands of miles across space to answer her call.

Syd coughed uncomfortably. "Say," he suggested, "Doc ... Salvation ...
what do you say we go down to the control-turret and plot our course a
little more carefully? We wouldn't want to make any mistakes, you know.
This is a mighty valuable invention we're flying--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Syd was a very talkative guy. But, thought Chip Warren, sometimes he
talked good ideas....





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lorelei Death, by Nelson S. Bond

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LORELEI DEATH ***

***** This file should be named 62039-8.txt or 62039-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/0/3/62039/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
