The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star Mouse, by Fredric Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Star Mouse

Author: Fredric Brown

Release Date: May 12, 2020 [EBook #62109]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR MOUSE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            The Star Mouse

                           By FREDRIC BROWN

                 Robinson Crusoe ... Gulliver ... Paul
                 Bunyan; the story of their adventures
              is nothing compared to the Saga of Mitkey.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Mitkey, the mouse, wasn't Mitkey then.

He was just another mouse, who lived behind the floorboards and plaster
of the house of the great Herr Professor Oberburger, formerly of
Vienna and Heidelberg; then a refugee from the excessive admiration of
more powerful of his fellow-countrymen. The excessive admiration had
concerned, not Herr Oberburger himself, but a certain gas which had
been a by-product of an unsuccessful rocket fuel--which might have been
a highly-successful something else.

If, of course, the Professor had given them the correct formula. Which
he--Well, anyway, the Professor had made good his escape and now lived
in a house in Connecticut. And so did Mitkey.

A small gray mouse, and a small gray man. Nothing unusual about either
of them. Particularly there was nothing unusual about Mitkey; he had a
family and he liked cheese and if there were Rotarians among mice, he
would have been a Rotarian.

The Herr Professor, of course, had his mild eccentricities. A
confirmed bachelor, he had no one to talk to except himself, but he
considered himself an excellent conversationalist and held constant
verbal communion with himself while he worked. That fact, it turned
out later, was important, because Mitkey had excellent ears and heard
those night-long soliloquies. He didn't understand them, of course. If
he thought about them at all, he merely thought of the Professor as a
large and noisy super-mouse who squeaked over-much.

"Und now," he would say to himself, "ve vill see vether this eggshaust
tube vas broperly machined. It should fidt vithin vun vun-hundredth
thousandth uf an indtch. Ahhh, it iss berfect. Und now--"

Night after night, day after day, month after month. The gleaming thing
grew, and the gleam in Herr Oberburger's eyes grew apace.

It was about three and a half feet long, with weirdly shaped vanes, and
it rested on a temporary framework on a table in the center of the room
that served the Herr Professor for all purposes. The house in which he
and Mitkey lived was a four room structure, but the Professor hadn't
yet found it out, seemingly. Originally, he had planned to use the big
room as a laboratory only, but he found it more convenient to sleep on
a cot in one corner of it, when he slept at all, and to do the little
cooking he did over the same gas burner over which he melted down
golden grains of TNT into a dangerous soup which he salted and peppered
with strange condiments, but did not eat.

"Und now I shall bour it into tubes, und see vether vun tube adjacendt
to another eggsplodes der secondt tube vhen der virst tube iss--"

That was the night Mitkey almost decided to move himself and his family
to a more stable abode, one that did not rock and sway and try to turn
handsprings on its foundations. But Mitkey didn't move after all,
because there were compensations. New mouse-holes all over, and--joy of
joy!--a big crack in the back of the refrigerator where the Professor
kept, among other things, food.

Of course the tubes had been not larger than capillary size, or the
house would not have remained around the mouse-holes. And of course
Mitkey could not guess what was coming nor understand the Herr
Professor's brand of English (nor any other brand of English, for that
matter) or he would not have let even a crack in the refrigerator tempt
him.

The Professor was jubilant that morning.

"Der fuel, idt vorks! Der secondt tube, idt did not eggsplode. Und der
virst, in _seggtions_, as I had eggspectedt! Und it is more bowerful;
there will be blenty of room for der combartment--"

Ah, yes, the compartment. That was where Mitkey came in, although even
the Professor didn't know it yet. In fact the Professor didn't even
know that Mitkey existed.

"Und now," he was saying to his favorite listener, "idt is budt a
madter of combining der fuel tubes so they work in obbosite bairs. Und
then--"

That was the moment when the Herr Professor's eyes first fell on
Mitkey. Rather, they fell upon a pair of gray whiskers and a black,
shiny little nose protruding from a hole in the baseboards.

"Vell!" he said, "vot haff ve here! Mitkey Mouse himself! Mitkey, how
vould you like to go for a ride, negst veek? Ve shall see."

       *       *       *       *       *

That is how it came about that the next time the Professor sent into
town for supplies, his order included a mousetrap--not one of the
vicious kind that kills, but one of the wire-cage kind. And it had not
been set, with cheese, for more than ten minutes before Mitkey's sharp
little nose had smelled out that cheese and he had followed his nose
into captivity.

Not, however, an unpleasant captivity. Mitkey was an honored guest. The
cage reposed now on the table at which the Professor did most of his
work, and cheese in indigestion-giving abundance was pushed through the
bars, and the Professor didn't talk to himself any more.

"You see, Mitkey, I vas going to sendt to der laboratory in Hardtford
for a vhite mouse, budt vhy should I, mit you here? I am sure you are
more soundt und healthy und able to vithstand a long chourney than
those laboratory mices. No? Ah, you viggle your viskers und that means
yes, no? Und being used to living in dargk holes, you should suffer
less than they from glaustrophobia, no?"

And Mitkey grew fat and happy and forgot all about trying to get out of
the cage. I fear that he even forgot about the family he had abandoned,
but he knew, if he knew anything, that he need not worry about them in
the slightest. At least not until and unless the Professor discovered
and repaired the hole in the refrigerator. And the Professor's mind was
most emphatically not on refrigerators.

"Und so, Mitkey, ve shall place this vane so--it iss only of assistance
in der landing, in an atmosphere. It und these vill bring you down
safely und slowly enough that der shock-absorbers in der movable
combartment vill keep you from bumping your head too hard, I think." Of
course, Mitkey missed the ominous note to that "I think" qualification
because he missed all the rest of it. He did not, as has been
explained, speak English. Not then.

But Herr Oberburger talked to him just the same. He showed him
pictures. "Did you effer see der Mouse you vas named after, Mitkey?
Vhat? No? Loogk, this is der original Mitkey Mouse, by Valt Dissney.
Budt I think you are cuter, Mitkey."

Probably the Professor was a bit crazy to talk that way to a little
gray mouse. In fact, he must have been crazy to make a rocket that
worked. For the odd thing was that the Herr Professor was not really
an inventor. There was, as he carefully explained to Mitkey, not one
single thing about that rocket that was _new_. The Herr Professor was a
technician; he could take other people's ideas and make them work. His
only real invention--the rocket fuel that wasn't one--had been turned
over to the United States Government and had proved to be something
already known and discarded because it was too expensive for practical
use.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he explained very carefully to Mitkey, "It iss burely a matter of
absolute accuracy and mathematical correctness, Mitkey. Idt iss all
here--ve merely combine--and ve achieff vhat, Mitkey?

"Eggscape velocity, Mitkey! Chust barely, it adds up to eggscape
velocity. Maybe. There are yet unknown facgtors, Mitkey, in der ubper
atmosphere, der troposphere, der stratosphere. Ve think ve know
eggsactly how mudch air there iss to calculate resistance against, but
are ve absolutely sure? No, Mitkey, ve are not. Ve haff not been there.
Und der marchin iss so narrow that so mudch as an air current might
affect idt."

But Mitkey cared not a whit. In the shadow of the tapering
aluminum-alloy cylinder he waxed fat and happy.

"Der tag, Mitkey, der tag! Und I shall not lie to you, Mitkey. I shall
not giff you valse assurances. You go on a dancherous chourney, mein
little friendt.

"A vifty-vifty chance ve giff you, Mitkey. Not der moon or bust, but
der moon _und_ bust, or else maybe safely back to earth. You see,
my boor little Mitkey, der moon iss not made of green cheese und if
it were, you vould not live to eat it because there iss not enough
atmosphere to bring you down safely und vith your viskers still on.

[Illustration: "NOT DER MOON OR BUST, BUT DER MOON UND BUST!"]

"Und vhy then, you may vell ask, do I send you? Because der rocket
may not attain eggscape velocity. Und in that case, it iss still an
eggsperiment, budt a different vun. Der rocket, if it goes not to der
moon, falls back on der earth, no? Und in that case certain instruments
shall giff us further information than ve haff yet about things up
there in space. Und you shall giff us information, by vether or not you
are yet alife, vether der shock absorbers und vanes are sufficient in
an earth-equivalent atmosphere. You see?

"Then ladter, vhen ve send rockets to Venus maybe vhere an atmosphere
eggsists, ve shall haff data to calculate the needed size of vanes und
shock-absorbers, no? Und in either case, und vether or not you return,
Mitkey, you shall be vamous! You shall be der virst liffing greature to
go oudt beyond der stratosphere of der earth, out into space.

"Mitkey, you shall be der Star-Mouse! I enfy you, Mitkey, und I only
vish I vere your size, so I could go, too."

Der tag, and the door to the compartment. "Gootbye, little Mitkey
Mouse." Darkness. Silence. Noise!

"Der rocket--if it goes not to der moon--falls back on der earth, no?"
That was what the Herr Professor thought. But the best-laid plans of
mice and men gang aft agley. Even star-mice.

All because of Prxl.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Herr Professor found himself very lonely. After having had Mitkey
to talk to, soliloquies were somehow empty and adequate.

There may be some who say that the company of a small gray mouse is a
poor substitute for a wife; but others may disagree. And, anyway, the
Professor had never had a wife, and he _had_ a mouse to talk to, so
he missed one and, if he missed the other, he didn't know it.

During the long night after the launching of the rocket, he had been
very busy with his telescope, a sweet little eight-inch reflector,
checking its course as it gathered momentum. The exhaust explosions
made a tiny fluctuating point of light that was possible to follow, if
one knew where to look.

But the following day there seemed to be nothing to do, and he was too
excited to sleep, although he tried. So he compromised by doing a spot
of housekeeping, cleaning the pots and pans. It was while he was so
engaged that he heard a series of frantic little squeaks and discovered
that another small gray mouse, with shorter whiskers and a shorter tail
than Mitkey, had walked into the wire-cage mousetrap.

"Vell, vell," said the Professor, "vot haff ve here? Minnie? Iss it
Minnie come to look for her Mitkey?"

The Professor was not a biologist, but he happened to be right.
It _was_ Minnie. Rather, it was Mitkey's mate, so the name was
appropriate. What strange vagary of mind had induced her to walk into
an unbaited trap, the Professor neither knew nor cared, but he was
delighted. He promptly remedied the lack of bait by pushing a sizable
piece of cheese through the bars.

Thus it was that Minnie came to fill the place of her far-traveling
spouse as repository for the Professor's confidences. Whether she
worried about her family or not there is no way of knowing, but
she need not have done so. They were now large enough to fend for
themselves, particularly in a house that offered abundant cover and
easy access to the refrigerator.

"Ah, und now it iss dargk enough, Minnie, that ve can loogk for that
husband of yours. His viery trail across the sky. True, Minnie, it
iss a very small viery trail und der astronomers vill not notice it,
because they do not know vhere to loogk. But ve do.

"He iss going to be a very vamous mouse, Minnie, this Mitkey of ours,
vhen ve tell der vorld about him und about mein rocket. You see, Minnie
ve haff not told them yet. Ve shall vait und giff der gomplete story
all at vunce. By dawn of tomorrow ve'll--

"Ah, there he iss, Minnie! Vaint, but there. I'd hold you up to der
scope und let you loogk, but it vould not be vocused right for your
eyes, und I do not know how to--

"Almost vun hundred thousand miles, Minnie, und still agcelerating, but
not for much longer. Our Mitkey iss on schedule; in fagt he iss going
vaster than ve had vigured, no? It iss sure now that he vill eggscape
the gravitation of der earth, und fall upon der moon!"

Of course, it was purely coincidental that Minnie squeaked.

"Ah, yess, Minnie, little Minnie. I know, I know. Ve shall neffer see
our Mitkey again, und I almost vish our eggsperiment hadt vailed. Budt
there are gompensations, Minnie. He shall be der most vamous of all
mices. Der Star-Mouse! Virst liffing greature effer to go beyond der
gravitational bull of earth!"

The night was long. Occasionally high clouds obscured vision.

"Minnie, I shall make you more gomfortable than in that so-small vire
cage. You vould like to seem to be vree, vould you not, vithout bars,
like der animals at modern zoos, vith moats insteadt?"

       *       *       *       *       *

And so, to fill in an hour when a cloud obscured the sky, the Herr
Professor made Minnie her new home. It was the end of a wooden crate,
about half an inch thick and a foot square, laid flat on the table,
and with no visible barrier around it.

But he covered the top with metal foil at the edges, and he placed the
board on another larger board which also had a strip of metal foil
surrounding the island of Minnie's home. And wires from the two areas
of metal foil to opposite terminals of a small transformer which he
placed near by.

"Und now, Minnie, I shall blace you on your island, vhich shall be
liberally supplied mitt cheese und vater, und you shall vind it iss
an eggcelent blace to liff. But you vill get a mild shock or two vhen
you try to step off der edge of der island. It vill not hurt much, but
you vill not like it, und after a few tries you vill learn not to try
again, no? Und--"

And night again.

Minnie happy on her island, her lesson well learned. She would no
longer so much as step on the inner strip of metal foil. It was a
mouse-paradise of an island, though. There was a cliff of cheese bigger
than Minnie herself. It kept her busy. Mouse and cheese; soon one would
be a transmutation of the other.

But Professor Oberburger wasn't thinking about that. The Professor
was worried. When he had calculated and re-calculated and aimed his
eight-inch reflector through the hole in the roof and turned out the
lights--

Yes, there _are_ advantages to being a bachelor after all. If one wants
a hole in the roof, one simply knocks a hole in the roof and there is
nobody to tell one that one is crazy. If winter comes, or if it rains,
one can always call a carpenter or use a tarpaulin.

But the faint trail of light wasn't there. The Professor frowned
and re-calculated and re-re-calculated and shifted his telescope
three-tenths of a minute and still the rocket wasn't there.

"Minnie, something iss wrong. Either der tubes haff stopped viring,
or--"

Or the rocket was no longer traversing a straight line relative to its
point of departure. By straight, of course, is meant parabollically
curved relative to everything other than velocity.

So the Herr Professor did the only thing remaining for him to do, and
began to search, with the telescope, in widening circles. It was two
hours before he found it, five degrees off course already and veering
more and more into a--Well, there was only one thing you could call it.
A tailspin.

The darned thing was going in circles, circles which appeared to
constitute an orbit about something that couldn't possibly be there.
Then narrowing into a concentric spiral.

Then--out. Gone. Darkness. No rocket flares.

The Professor's face was pale as he turned to Minnie.

"It iss _imbossible_, Minnie. Mein own eyes, but it could not be.
Even if vun side stopped viring, it could not haff gone into such
sudden circles." His pencil verified a suspicion. "Und, Minnie, it
decellerated vaster than bossible. Even mitt _no_ tubes viring, its
momentum vould haff been more--"

The rest of the night--telescope and calculus--yielded no clue. That
is, no believable clue. Some force not inherent in the rocket itself,
and not accountable by gravitation--even of a hypothetical body--had
acted.

"Mein poor Mitkey."

[Illustration: "POOR MITKEY"]

The gray, inscrutable dawn. "Mein Minnie, it vill haff to be a secret.
Ve dare not bublish vhat ve saw, for it vould not be believed. I am not
sure I believe it myself, Minnie. Berhaps because I vas offertired
vrom not sleeping, I chust imachined that I saw--"

Later. "But, Minnie, ve shall hope. Vun hundred vifty thousand miles
out, it vas. It vill fall back upon der earth. But I gannot tell vhere!
I thought that if it did, I vould be able to galculate its course,
und--But after those goncentric cirgles--Minnie, not even _Einstein_
could galculate vhere it vill land. Not effen _me_. All ve can do iss
hope that ve shall hear of vhere it falls."

Cloudy day. Black night jealous of its mysteries.

"Minnie, our poor Mitkey. There iss _nothing_ could have gauzed--"

But something had.

Prxl.

Prxl is an asteroid. It isn't called that by earthly astronomers,
because--for excellent reasons--they have not discovered it. So we
will call it by the nearest possible transliteration of the name its
inhabitants use. Yes, it's inhabited.

Come to think of it, Professor Oberburger's attempt to send a rocket to
the moon had some strange results. Or rather, Prxl did.

You wouldn't think that an asteroid could reform a drunk, would you?
But one Charles Winslow, a besotted citizen of Bridgeport, Connecticut,
never took a drink when--right on Grove Street--a mouse asked him the
road to Hartford. The mouse was wearing bright red pants and vivid
yellow gloves--

But that was fifteen months after the Professor lost his rocket. We'd
better start over again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prxl is an asteroid. One of those despised celestial bodies which
terrestrial astronomers call vermin of the sky, because the darned
things leave trails across the plates that clutter up the more
important observations of novae and nebulae. Fifty thousand fleas on
the dark dog of night.

Tiny things, most of them. Astronomers have been discovering recently
that some of them come close to Earth. Amazingly close. There
was excitement in 1932 when Amor came within ten million miles;
astronomically, a mere mashie shot. Then Apollo cut that almost in
half, and in 1936 Adonis came within less than one and a half million
miles.

In 1937, Hermes, less than half a million but the astronomers got
really excited when they calculated its orbit and found that the little
mile-long asteroid _can_ come within a mere 220,000 miles, closer than
Earth's own moon.

Some day they may be still more excited, if and when they spot the
3/8-mile asteroid Prxl, that obstacle of space, making a transit across
the moon and discover that it frequently comes within a mere hundred
thousand miles of our rapidly whirling world.

Only in event of a transit will they ever discover it, though, for
Prxl does not reflect light. It hasn't, anyway, for several million
years since its inhabitants coated it with a black, light-absorbing
pigment derived from its interior. Monumental task, painting a world,
for creatures half an inch tall. But worth it, at the time. When they'd
shifted its orbit, they were safe from their enemies. There were giants
in those days--eight-inch tall marauding pirates from Diemos. Got to
Earth a couple of times too, before they faded out of the picture.
Pleasant little giants who killed because they enjoyed it. Records
in now-buried cities on Diemos might explain what happened to the
dinosaurs. And why the promising Cro-Magnons disappeared at the height
of their promise only a cosmic few minutes after the dinosaurs went
west.

But Prxl survived. Tiny world no longer reflecting the sun's rays, lost
to the cosmic killers when its orbit was shifted.

Prxl. Still civilized, with a civilization millions of years old.
Its coat of blackness preserved and renewed regularly, more through
tradition than fear of enemies in these later degenerate days. Mighty
but stagnant civilization, standing still on a world that whizzes like
a bullet.

And Mitkey Mouse.

       *       *       *       *       *

Klarloth, head scientist of a race of scientists, tapped his assistant
Bemj on what would have been Bemj's shoulder if he had had one. "Look,"
he said, "what approaches Prxl. Obviously artificial propulsion."

Bemj looked into the wall-plate and then directed a thought-wave at the
mechanism that jumped the magnification of a thousand-fold through an
alteration of the electronic field.

The image leaped, blurred, then steadied. "Fabricated," said Bemj.
"Extremely crude, I must say. Primitive explosive-powered rocket. Wait,
I'll check where it came from."

He took the readings from the dials about the viewplate, and hurled
them as thoughts against the psychocoil of the computer, then waited
while that most complicated of machines digested all the factors and
prepared the answer. Then, eagerly, he slid his mind into rapport with
its projector. Klarloth likewise listened in to the silent broadcast.

Exact point on Earth and exact time of departure. Untranslatable
expression of curve of trajectory, and point on that curve where
deflected by gravitational pull of Prxl. The destination--or rather
the original intended destination--of the rocket was obvious, Earth's
moon. Time and place of arrival on Prxl if present course of rocket was
unchanged.

"Earth," said Klarloth meditatively. "They were a long way from rocket
travel the last time we checked them. Some sort of a crusade, or battle
of beliefs, going on, wasn't there?"

Bemj nodded. "Catapults. Bows and arrows. They've taken a long stride
since, even if this is only an early experimental thing of a rocket.
Shall we destroy it before it gets here?"

Klarloth shook his head thoughtfully. "Let's look it over. May save us
a trip to Earth; we can judge their present state of development pretty
well from the rocket itself."

"But then we'll have to--"

"Of course. Call the Station. Tell them to train their
attracto-repulsors on it and to swing it into a temporary orbit until
they prepare a landing-cradle. And not forget to damp out the explosive
before they bring it down."

"Temporary force-field around point of landing--in case?"

"Naturally."

So despite the almost complete absence of atmosphere in which the vanes
could have functioned, the rocket came down safely and so softly that
Mitkey, in the dark compartment, knew only that the awful noise had
stopped.

Mitkey felt better. He ate some more of the cheese with which the
compartment was liberally provided. Then he resumed trying to gnaw a
hole in the inch-thick wood with which the compartment was lined. That
wooden lining was a kind thought of the Herr Professor for Mitkey's
mental well-being. He knew that trying to gnaw his way out would give
Mitkey something to do en route which would keep him from getting the
screaming meamies. The idea had worked; being busy, Mitkey hadn't
suffered mentally from his dark confinement. And now that things were
quiet, he chewed away more industriously and more happily than ever,
sublimely unaware that when he got through the wood, he'd find only
metal which he couldn't chew. But better people than Mitkey have found
things they couldn't chew.

Meanwhile, Klarloth and Bemj and several thousand other Prxlians
stood gazing up at the huge rocket which, even lying on its side,
towered high over their heads. Some of the younger ones, forgetting
the invisible field of force, walked too close and came back, ruefully
rubbing bumped heads.

Klarloth himself was at the psychograph.

"There _is_ life inside the rocket," he told Bemj. "But the impressions
are confused. One creature, but I cannot follow its thought processes.
At the moment it seems to be doing something with its teeth."

"It could not be an Earthling, one of the dominant race. One of them is
much larger than this huge rocket. Gigantic creatures. Perhaps, unable
to construct a rocket large enough to hold one of themselves, they sent
an experimental creature, such as our wooraths."

"I believe you've guessed right, Bemj. Well, when we have explored its
mind thoroughly, we may still learn enough to save us a check-up trip
to Earth. I am going to open the door."

"But air--creatures of Earth would need a heavy, almost a dense
atmosphere. It could not live."

"We retain the force-field, of course. It will keep the air in.
Obviously there is a source of supply of air within the rocket or the
creature would not have survived the trip."

Klarloth operated controls, and the force-field itself put forth
invisible pseudo-pods and turned the outer screw-door, then reached
within and unlatched the inner door to the compartment itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

All Prxl watched breathlessly as a monstrous gray head pushed out of
the huge aperture yawning overhead. Thick whiskers, each as long as the
body of a Prxlian--

Mitkey jumped down, and took a forward step that bumped his black
nose hard--into something that wasn't there. He squeaked, and jumped
backwards against the rocket.

There was disgust in Bemj's face as he looked up at the monster.
"Obviously much less intelligent than a woorath. Might just as well
turn on the ray."

"Not at all," interrupted Klarloth. "You forget certain very obvious
facts. The creature is unintelligent, of course, but the subconscious
of every animal holds in itself every memory, every impression, every
sense-image, to which it has ever been subjected. If this creature
has ever heard the speech of the Earthlings, or seen any of their
works--besides this rocket--every word and every picture is indellibly
graven. You see now what I mean?"

"Naturally. How stupid of me, Klarloth. Well, one thing is obvious from
the rocket itself: we have nothing to fear from the science of Earth
for at least a few millenia. So there is no hurry, which is fortunate.
For to send back the creature's memory to the time of its birth, and to
follow each sensory impression in the psychograph will require--well, a
time at least equivalent to the age of the creature, whatever that is,
plus the time necessary for us to interpret and assimilate each."

"But that will not be necessary, Bemj."

"No? Oh, you mean the X-19 waves?"

"Exactly. Focused upon this creature's brain-center, they can, without
disturbing his memories, be so delicately adjusted as to increase his
intelligence--now probably about .0001 in the scale--to the point
where he is a reasoning creature. Almost automatically, during the
process, he will assimilate his own memories, and understand them just
as he would if he had been intelligent at the time he received those
impressions.

"See, Bemj? He will automatically sort out irrelevant data, and will be
able to answer our questions."

"But would you make him as intelligent as--?"

"As we? No, the X-19 waves would not work so far. I would say to
about .2 on the scale. That, judging from the rocket coupled with what
we remember of Earthlings from our last trip there, is about their
present place on the intelligence scale."

"Ummm, yes. At that level, he would comprehend his experiences on Earth
just sufficiently that he would not be dangerous to us, too. Equal to
an intelligent Earthling. Just about right for our purpose. Then, shall
we teach him our language?"

"Wait," said Klarloth. He studied the psychograph closely for a while.
"No, I do not think so. He will have a language of his own. I see in
his subconscious, memories of many long conversations. Strangely, they
all seem to be monologues by one person. But he will have a language--a
simple one. It would take him a long time, even under treatment, to
grasp the concepts of our own method of communication. But we can learn
his, while he is under the X-19 machine, in a few minutes."

"Does he understand, now, any of that language?"

Klarloth studied the psychograph again. "No, I do not believe he--Wait,
there is one word that seems to mean something to him. The word
'Mitkey.' It seems to be his name, and I believe that, from hearing it
many times, he vaguely associates it with himself."

"And quarters for him--with air-locks and such?"

"Of course. Order them built."


                                   V

To say it was a strange experience for Mitkey is understatement.
Knowledge is a strange thing, even when it is acquired gradually. To
have it thrust upon one--

And there were little things that had to be straightened out. Like the
matter of vocal chords. His weren't adapted to the language he now
found he knew. Bemj fixed that; you would hardly call it an operation
because Mitkey--even with his new awareness--didn't know what was going
on, and he was wide awake at the time. And they didn't explain to
Mitkey about the J-dimension with which one can get at the inwardness
of things without penetrating the outside.

They figured things like that weren't in Mitkey's line, and anyway they
were more interested in learning from him than teaching him. Bemj and
Klarloth, and a dozen others deemed worthy of the privilege. If one of
them wasn't talking to him, another was.

Their questioning helped his own growing understanding. He would not,
usually, know that he knew the answer to a question until it was asked.
Then he'd piece together, without knowing just how he did it (any more
than you or I know _how_ we know things) and give them the answer.

Bemj: "Iss this language vhich you sbeak a universal vun?"

And Mitkey, even though he'd never thought about it before, had the
answer ready: "No, it iss nodt. It iss Englitch, but I remember der
Herr Brofessor sbeaking of other tongues. I belieff he sboke another
himself originally, budt in American he always sboke Englitch to become
more vamiliar mitt it. It iss a beaudiful sbeech, is it nodt?"

"Hmmmm," said Bemj.

Klarloth: "Und your race, the mices. Are they treated vell?"

"Nodt by most people," Mitkey told him. And explained.

"I vould like to do something for them," he added. "Loogk, could I nodt
take back mitt me this brocess vhich you used upon me? Abbly it to
other mices, und greate a race of super-mices?"

"Vhy not?" asked Bemj.

He saw Klarloth looking at him strangely, and threw his mind into
rapport with the chief scientist's, with Mitkey left out of the silent
communion.

"Yes, of course," Bemj told Klarloth, "it will lead to trouble on
Earth, grave trouble. Two equal classes of beings so dissimilar as mice
and men cannot live together in amity. But why should that concern us,
other than favorably? The resultant mess will slow down progress on
Earth--give us a few more millennia of peace before Earthlings discover
we are here, and trouble starts. You know these Earthlings."

"But you would give them the X-19 waves? They might--"

"No, of course not. But we can explain to Mitkey here how to make
a very crude and limited machine for them. A primitive one which
would suffice for nothing more than the specific task of converting
mouse mentality from .0001 to .2, Mitkey's own level and that of the
bifurcated Earthlings."

"It is possible," communicated Klarloth. "It is certain that for aeons
to come they will be incapable of understanding its basic principle."

"But could they not use even a crude machine to raise their own level
of intelligence?"

"You forget, Bemj, the basic limitation of the X-19 rays; that no one
can possibly design a projector capable of raising any mentality to a
point on the scale higher than his own. Not even we."

All this, of course, over Mitkey's head, in silent Prxlian.

More interviews, and more.

Klarloth again: "Mitkey, ve varn you of vun thing. Avoid carelessness
vith electricity. Der new molecular rearranchement of your brain
center--it iss unstable, und--"

Bemj: "Mitkey, are you sure your Herr Brofessor iss der most advanced
of all who eggsperiment vith der rockets?"

"In cheneral, yess, Bemj. There are others who on vun specific boint,
such as eggsplosives, mathematics, astrovisics, may know more, but not
much more. Und for combining these knowledges, he iss ahead."

"It iss vell," said Bemj.

       *       *       *       *       *

Small gray mouse towering like a dinosaur over tinier half-inch
Prxlians. Meek, herbivorous creature though he was, Mitkey could have
killed any one of them with a single bite. But, of course, it never
occurred to him to do so, nor to them to fear that he might.

They turned him inside out mentally. They did a pretty good job of
study on him physically, too, but that was through the J-dimension, and
Mitkey didn't even know about it.

They found out what made him tick, and they found out everything he
knew and some things he didn't even know he knew. And they grew quite
fond of him.

"Mitkey," said Klarloth one day, "all der civilized races on Earth year
glothing, do they nodt? Veil, if you are to raise der level of mices to
men, vould it not be vitting that you vear glothes, too?"

"An eggcelent idea, Herr Klarloth. Und I know chust vhat kind I vould
like. Der Herr Brofessor vunce showed me a bicture of a mouse bainted
by der artist Dissney, und der mouse vore glothing. Der mouse vas not a
real-life vun, budt an imachinary mouse in a barable, und der Brofessor
named me after der Dissney mouse."

"Vot kind of glothing vas it, Mitkey?"

That was on the eve of Mitkey's departure. Originally, Bemj had
suggested awaiting the moment when Prxl's eccentric orbit would again
take it within a hundred and fifty thousand miles of Earth. But, as
Klarloth pointed out, that would be fifty-five Earth-years ahead, and
Mitkey wouldn't last that long. Not unless they--And Bemj agreed that
they had better not risk sending a secret like that back to Earth.

"Bright red bants mitt two big yellow buttons in frondt und two in
back, und yellow shoes for der back feet und a pair of yellow gloves
for der vront. A hole in der seat of der bants to aggomodate der tail."

[Illustration: MOUSE

    --WARNING--
    FINE OF 500 BUCKS
    6 MO. IMPRISONMENT
    OR BOTH TO ANY
    PERSON CAUGHT
    TYING KNOTS IN OR
    PLUCKING HAIRS
    OUT OF CREATURE'S
    TAIL--_POLICE DEPT._

       HOT FRANKS

    TOURS
    ALL
    POINTS OF
    INTEREST
    EVERY
    HOUR
]

[Illustration: "A HOLE IN DER SEAT OF DER BANTS TO AGGOMODATE DER
TAIL." ]

"Ogay, Mitkey. Such shall be ready for you in fife minutes."

So they compromised by refueling Mitkey's rocket with something that
would cancel out the million and a quarter odd miles he would have to
travel. That secret they didn't have to worry about, because the fuel
would be gone by the time the rocket landed.

Day of departure.

"Ve haff done our best, Mitkey, to set und time der rocket so it vill
land on or near der spot from vhich you left Earth. But you gannot
eggspect agguracy in a voyach so long as this. But you vill land near.
The rest iss up to you. Ve haff equvipped the rocket ship for effery
contingency."

"Thank you, Herr Klarloth, Herr Bemj. Gootbye."

"Gootbye, Mitkey. Ve hate to loose you."

"Gootbye, Mitkey."

"Gootbye, gootbye...."


                                  VI

For a million and a quarter miles, the aim was really excellent. The
rocket landed in Long Island Sound, ten miles out from Bridgeport,
about sixty miles from the house of Professor Oberburger near Hartford.

They had prepared for a water landing, of course. The rocket went down
to the bottom, but before it was more than a few dozen feet under the
surface, Mitkey opened the door--especially re-equipped to open from
the inside--and stepped out.

Over his regular clothes he wore a neat little diving suit that would
have protected him at any reasonable depth, and which, being lighter
than water, brought him to the surface quickly where he was able to
open his helmet.

He had enough synthetic food to last him for a week, but it wasn't
necessary, as things turned out. The night-boat from Boston carried him
in to Bridgeport on its anchor chain, and once in sight of land he was
able to divest himself of the diving suit and let it sink to the bottom
after he'd punctured the tiny compartments that made it float, as he'd
promised Klarloth he would do.

Almost instinctively, Mitkey knew that he'd do well to avoid human
beings until he'd reached Professor Oberburger and told his story. His
worst danger proved to be the rats at the wharf where he swam ashore.
They were ten times Mitkey's size and had teeth that could have taken
him apart in two bites.

But mind has always triumphed over matter. Mitkey pointed an imperious
yellow glove and said, "Scram," and the rats scrammed. They'd never
seen anything like Mitkey before, and they were impressed.

[Illustration: "SCRAM!"]

So for that matter, was the drunk of whom Mitkey inquired the way to
Hartford. We mentioned that episode before. That was the only time
Mitkey tried direct communication with strange human beings. He took,
of course, every precaution. He addressed his remarks from a strategic
position only inches away from a hole into which he could have popped.
But it was the drunk who did the popping, without even waiting to
answer Mitkey's question.

[Illustration: "I BEG YOUR PARDON SIR, BUT, COULD YOU DIRECT ME TO
HARTFORD?"]

But he got there, finally. He made his way afoot to the north side of
town and hid out behind a gas station until he heard a motorist who had
pulled in for gasoline inquire the way to Hartford. And Mitkey was a
stowaway when the car started up.

The rest wasn't hard. The calculations of the Prxlians showed that
the starting point of the rocket was five Earth miles north-west of
what showed on their telescopomaps as a city, and which from the
Professor's conversation Mitkey knew would be Hartford.

He got there.


                                  VII

"Hello, Brofessor."

The Herr Professor Oberburger looked up, startled. There was no one in
sight. "Vot?" he asked, of the air. "Who iss?"

"It iss I, Brofessor. Mitkey, der mouse whom you sent to der moon. But
I vas not there. Insteadt, I--"

"Vot?? It iss imbossible. Somebody blays der choke. Budt--budt nobody
_knows_ about that rocket. Vhen it vailed, I didn't told nobody. Nobody
budt me knows--"

"And me, Brofessor."

The Herr Professor sighed heavily. "Offervork. I am going vhat they
call battly in der bel--"

"No, Brofessor. This is really me, Mitkey. I can talk now. Chust like
you."

"You say you can--I do not belief it. Vhy can I not see you, then.
Vhere are you? Vhy don't you--"

"I am hiding, Brofessor, in der valll chust behind der big hole. I
vanted to be sure efferything vas ogay before I showed myself. Then you
vould not get eggcited und throw something at me maybe."

"Vot? Vhy, Mitkey, if it iss really you und I am nodt asleep or
going--Vhy, Mitkey, you know better than to think I might do something
like that!"

"Ogay, Brofessor."

Mitkey stepped out of the hole in the wall, and the Professor looked at
him and rubbed his eyes and looked again and rubbed his eyes and--

"I _am_ grazy," he said finally. "Red bants he vears yet, und
yellow--It gannot be. I _am_ grazy."

"No, Brofessor. Listen, I'll tell you all aboudt."

And Mitkey told him.

Gray dawn, and a small gray mouse still talking earnestly.

"But, Mitkey--"

"Yess, Brofessor. I see your boint, that you think an intelligent race
of mices und an intelligent race of men couldt nodt get along side by
sides. But it vould not be side by sides; as I said, there are only a
ferry few beople in the smallest continent of Australia. Und it vould
cost little to bring them back und turn offer that continent to us
mices. Ve vould call it Moustralia instead Australia, und ve vould
instead of Sydney call der capital Dissney, in honor of--"

"But, Mitkey--"

"But, Brofessor, look vot ve offer for that continent. _All_ mices
vould go there. Ve civilize a few und the few help us catch others
und bring them in to put them under der ray machine, und the others
help catch more under build more machines und it grows like a snowball
rolling down hill. Und ve sign a non-aggression pact mitt humans und
stay on Moustralia und raise our own food und--"

"But, Mitkey--"

"Und look vot ve offer you in eggschange, Herr Brofessor! Ve vill
eggsterminate your vorst enemy--der _rats_. Ve do not like them either.
Und vun battalion of vun thousand mices, armed mitt gas masks und
small gas bombs could go right in effery hole after der rats und could
eggsterminate effery rat in a city in vun day or two. In der whole
vorld ve could eggsterminate effery last rat in a year, und at the same
time catch und civilize effery mouse und ship him to Moustralia, und--"

"But, Mitkey--"

"Vot, Brofessor?"

"It vould vork, but it voul dnot work. You could eggsterminate der
rats, yess. But how long vould it be before conflicts of interests
vould lead to der mices trying to eggsterminate der people or der
people trying to eggsterminate der--"

"They vould not dare, Brofessor! Ve could make veapons that vould--"

"You see, Mitkey?"

"But it vould not habben. If men vill honor our rights, ve vill honor--"

The Herr Professor sighed.

"I--I vill act as your intermediary, Mitkey, und offer your
broposition, und--Vell, it iss true that getting rid of rats vould be a
greadt boon to der human race. Budt--"

"Thank you, Brofessor."

"By der vay, Mitkey. I haff Minnie. Your vife, I guess it iss, unless
there vas other mices around. She iss in der other room; I put her
there chust before you arriffed, so she vould be in der dark und could
sleep. You vant to see her?"

"Vife?" said Mitkey. It had been so long that he had really forgotten
the family he had perforce abandoned. The memory returned slowly.

"Veil," he said "--ummm, yess. Ve vill get her und I shall construct
quvick a small X-19 prochector und--Yess, it vill help you in your
negotiations mitt der governments if there are sefferal of us already
so they can see I am not chust a freak like they might otherwise
suspegt."


                                 VIII

It wasn't deliberate. It couldn't have been, because the Professor
didn't know about Klarloth's warning to Mitkey about carelessness with
electricity--"Der new molecular rearrangement of your brain center--it
iss unstable, und--"

And the Professor was still back in the lighted room when Mitkey ran
into the room where Minnie was in her barless cage. She was asleep, and
the sight of her--Memory of his earlier days came back like a flash and
suddenly Mitkey knew how lonesome he had been.

"Minnie!" he called, forgetting that she could not understand.

And stepped up on the board where she lay. "Squeak!" The mild
electrical current between the two strips of tinfoil got him.

There was silence for a while.

Then: "Mitkey," called the Herr Professor. "Come on back und ve vill
discuss this--"

He stepped through the doorway and saw them, there in the gray light of
dawn, two small gray mice cuddled happily together. He couldn't tell
which was which, because Mitkey's teeth had torn off the red and yellow
garments which had suddenly been strange, confining and obnoxious
things.

"Vot on earth?" asked Professor Oberburger. Then he remembered the
current, and guessed.

"Mitkey! Can you no longer talk? Iss der--"

Silence.

Then the Professor smiled. "Mitkey," he said, "my little star-mouse. I
think you are more happier now."

[Illustration: "GOOTBYE, MITKEY"]

He watched them a moment, fondly, then reached down and flipped the
switch that broke the electrical barrier. Of course they didn't know
they were free, but when the Professor picked them up and placed them
carefully on the floor, one ran immediately for the hole in the wall.
The other followed, but turned around and looked back--still a trace of
puzzlement in the little black eyes, a puzzlement that faded.

"Gootbye, Mitkey. You vill be happier this vay. Und there vill always
be cheese."

"Squeak," said the little gray mouse, and it popped into the hole.

"Gootbye--" it might, or might not, have meant.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Transcriber's Note: Section heads for Sections I to IV are missing]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star Mouse, by Fredric Brown

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR MOUSE ***

***** This file should be named 62109.txt or 62109.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/1/0/62109/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
