The Project Gutenberg EBook of Asteroid of the Damned, by Dirk Wylie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Asteroid of the Damned

Author: Dirk Wylie

Release Date: May 18, 2020 [EBook #62168]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ASTEROID OF THE DAMNED ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        ASTEROID OF THE DAMNED

                             By DIRK WYLIE

                   Somewhere on that asteroid of sin
                lurked the crime king of the Universe.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Sorry, son," MacCauley said with the barrel-scrapings of his patience.
"I said no and I meant it. I haven't got anything to give you. Now
please stop waggling at me and go."

The excited glitter of the Palladian's luminiferous eyes died
dispiritedly. MacCauley turned his back on the slight-bodied asterite
and rapped his thumbnail against his drained glass. The bartender, a
heavy and humorous man, expertly refilled Mac's glass with oily, musky,
milk-white synthetic liquor and said: "This Kiddie bothering you? Scat,
you, or I'll see that you never get into this place again."

Mac shrugged as he watched the stripling strain to catch the
bartender's meaning by reading his lips, then mournfully disappear.
"No more than they all do," he answered. "What's the matter with them,
anyhow? They're positively nutty on the subject of money."

The bartender shook his head and snatched a quick drag on a smoldering
cigar-stub. Replacing it on a ledge, he said: "Not money so much. You
couldn't bribe a Kiddie with a certified check for a couple of billion
dollars. They're not bright, exactly; they don't regard paper as worth
anything. It's metal they want. If it happens to be precious, that's
all right, but any kind of metal will do. What they're really crazy
about, of course, is silver and copper. They'll do just about anything
for it, including murder and treason."

Mac, listening too intently, gulped a bit more of his drink than
even his spaceman's gullet could take. When the red-hot lava stopped
strangling him and he could see once more through the streaming
fountains that had been his eyes, he managed to choke out: "What do
they want it for? Do they eat it?"

The bartender laughed. "Nah. They don't really eat anything. They drink
some kind of stuff they find in the rocks--like they used to find
petroleum, on Earth. Radioactive, this stuff is. That's all they need
to live on. They don't breathe at all. You can see that; they don't
even have a mouth or a real nose, just a sort of trunk that they drink
through.... Wait a minute. Be back."

The bartender rolled away. A couple of new customers had come into his
side of the bar and were demanding attention.

Mac sighed and glanced at his watch. But the bartender was back and
ready for more talk before Mac had made up his mind to leave. The
bartender wanted to talk because this was a dull night in the cafe
attached to Pallas' largest gambling-room; for the same reason,
MacCauley wanted to leave. He was here on business.

       *       *       *       *       *

However, he might need to know something about the natives of Pallas
for his business. And he really was shockingly uninformed about the
creatures who inhabited the free-port asteroid. Other than that they
were called Kiddies, looked like seven-year-old Earthly children, and
didn't breathe, he really knew nothing.

"Then what do they do with this metal if they don't eat it?" he asked.

The bartender shrugged. "They probably know, but they're too dopey to
be able to tell you. I asked one of them once--he wrote out an answer,
the way they always do when they want to tell you something. Seems they
generate electricity in their bodies. A Palladian's idea of a real good
time is to take a hunk of pure copper and hold it in his hands. The
current runs from one hand to the other. They are like that. This one
claimed that each metal gave them a different kind of thrill."

"All right if you like," MacCauley said absently. "Me, I'll take my
jolts out of a bottle."

"Was that an order for another drink?" The bottle was already in the
fat man's hands.

MacCauley nodded, and glanced again at the time. He swallowed the
poisonous liquor as fast as he could manage; then took one last quick
look around the bar to make sure.

Yep, he was wasting time here. The place was practically empty.

He paid his check in Earth-American dollars, and passed on to the main
game room.

Like everything else in Pallas, it was completely underground, with a
purely artificial atmosphere. Artificial, in fact, was the word for
Pallas. Everything about it was synthetic; there wasn't a figment of
reality to be found in it. All that Pallas had to offer visitors was
freedom from most of the more pressing laws of the more civilized--and
larger--worlds. That, and the Kiddies, the peculiar race that had been
found on the small asteroid when the first space-explorers got there.
Everything that Pallas had, it owed to the fact that, in essence, it
had nothing. No minerals worth the cost of extraction; no agriculture;
no science; no artifacts; no history. It was so totally useless that
the major worlds of the system had declared, "Hands off!" And to
that fact Pallas owed the liberality of laws that made it a refuge
for fugitives from the Tri-Planet justice, as well as a planet-sized
gambling den.

MacCauley curled the tip of his nose when he got a whiff of the
atmosphere. It had been bad enough in the bar--thin, moist air,
representing a compromise between the atmospheres of Earth, Mars
and Venus; enjoyable to the members of none of the races from those
planets, but just barely breathable to all. That atmosphere, even when
pure, was obnoxious. And here, in the densely-packed main hall, it was
really foul. There was something about Venusians, Mac decided, that he
didn't like. It wasn't their fault, of course, that they had evolved in
a wet climate, and had distinct auras of unearthly B.O. in consequence
of their need to perspire. But it wasn't his fault, either, and he
didn't see why he should suffer for it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mentally holding his nostrils, he waded into the reek and halted by
a magneto-roulette table. A casual observer, MacCauley hoped, would
think he was engrossed in watching the game. Actually he was carefully
scrutinizing each of the score of players and spectators at the table.
Somewhere in this motley mob made of the dwellers of a half-dozen
planets there might be a cool, level-headed, thoroughly dangerous
man, the brains of the syndicate that was flooding Earth and Venus
with narcophene. That drug was the most formidable in the history of
narcotics. You chewed it--if you were insane or ignorant!--and you felt
nothing but a pleasant coolness on your tongue. There weren't any mad
hallucinations of grandeur; you never lost consciousness of what you
were doing or who you were. Just, without your consciously realizing
it, you felt better all around. Things that should have worried you
sick seemed trivial; you could laugh at the specter of sickness or
agony or anything, however fearsome that endangered or injured you.
The drug had a certain medical value; it was used to prevent total
insanity in persons suffering from utterly incurable and horribly
painful diseases. For with them it didn't matter that the narcophene
habit was permanent, once acquired; they didn't have to fear the mental
and moral and eventually physical collapse that was bound to come. They
were as good as dead anyhow.

But for others....

And the man who had reorganized the once-smashed industry of
manufacturing and smuggling it was on Pallas now. That much the home
office of Tri-Planet Law knew, and had told Mac. That was all their
best operatives on the inner planets had been able to dig up, and from
that point onward ... nothing. Those who could have told more were
addicts, and those who had tried to tell more were dead. Murdered.

There was a TPL office on Pallas, of course, but it was a one-man
outfit. And the one man seemed thoroughly incompetent, for this job, at
least. His reports had shown him to be unable to even begin the job of
tracking down the man. Hence, MacCauley.

For the sake of appearances, MacCauley threw a bill on number 28, lost
it, and moved on. Nobody in the neighborhood of that table corresponded
to the vague physical description he'd been able to glean from the
scanty reports.

Nor, he found, did anyone in the house. That didn't prove anything, of
course, except that the man Mac was after wasn't at this particular
place at the time; or, naturally, that the description MacCauley'd been
given was wrong from the ground up, but that wasn't a thing to think
about.

He shrugged and moved toward the exit. The room was packed worse than
ever; he had to shove his way through. He kept bumping into people,
he noticed--then looked around. It wasn't so much that he was bumping
into people, he found, as that people, represented by the Kiddie, were
nudging him.

"Oh, for the Lord's sake!" he cried tiredly. "I tell you I won't give
you anything. Now get away from me. And stay away, if you want to keep
living."

The Kiddie shrank into himself and seemed to whimper voicelessly. The
glow-glands set around his eyes shone a pinkish purple of fright. He
started to say something--in the primitive sign-language that his race
used to communicate with aliens--but halted the gesture and abruptly
turned and slunk away. His slight frame, the size and appearance of
a seven-year-old boy's, vanished almost immediately in the pack of
hulking Venusians and attenuated, pallid stick-men from Mars.

MacCauley didn't pursue him; there was no reason, of course, for him to
do so.

       *       *       *       *       *

But that, "of course," like so many others, was wrong. There was a
definite reason for Mac to follow the metals-mad asterite. Mac found
the reason when he reached the cloakroom. He reached in his pocket to
tip the pretty Terrestrial check-girl--and found not even a pocket.
Just a slit that had been made not more than ten minutes before,
through which the pocket itself and contents had been neatly extracted.
Presumably by the Kiddie.

"Damn!" was the best Mac could do, but he said it with feeling. He
was casting about in his mind for something he could say to the girl
that might make her forget about tips when he saw the Kiddie himself,
luminescing a vivid green, scuttling out the front door.

"Hey!" he yelled, and it wasn't only a desire to get away that kept
the Kiddie from looking around; he couldn't hear any more than he
could speak. Language failing, Mac took stronger measures. He left his
sport-silk jacket on the arm of the bewildered girl and sprinted after
the Kiddie. Intercepting him just previous to the door, he swung the
Palladian around and gestured with frantic anger. The Kiddie, with a
surprising show of strength in so frail a body, attempted no answer or
denial of the charge of theft, but wrenched himself free and darted out
the door.

Mac, following, met the inevitable. When the luck of the MacCauleys ran
bad, it stayed bad--or worse. He collided with a fat and pugnacious
drunk. Not only collided with him but knocked the wind out of him.
If it hadn't been that the drunk had an equally drunk and volatile
companion, that would have been all right. As it was, Mac found
himself on the receiving end of a pale, knuckly Venusian fist.

He was flat on the floor before he realized he'd been hit. Then began
the real trouble.

Somebody yelled, "Oh, boy! A fight!" and leaped joyously on Mac with a
pair of magno-caulked spaceman's boots. What happened after that got
worse and worse. Everybody in the gambling joint seemed to have mayhem
in their hearts. Practically to a man, they poured out and joined in
the free-for-all. Half the floating population of Pallas seemed to have
come to rest on MacCauky's solar plexus by the time he heard the soft,
popping noises from the weapons of the house's private army of bouncers
and trouble-shooters. When MacCauley next found himself able to look
around he was out in the half-hearted illumination of the street, sick
and weak from the effect of the gas pellets which had quelled the riot.

And without a penny to his name.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would have been foolhardy to have left his money in the "safe" at
the hotel, though there was slight comfort in that thought. One place
was as good as another on Pallas, where laws were made for the sheer
pleasure of violating them; the native Palladians, shifty and unmoral
as they were, were hopelessly outclassed in dishonesty by the civilized
men of the inner planets. The one law all respected was the law of pure
and applied force.

Mac fumbled a crumpled cigarette from his pocket and thought miserably
of going to the police. Miserably, because the native police force was
a joke and a mockery, maintained more to put the squeeze on innocent
foreigners than for any other reason. Which shows how naive the
asterites were; there was nothing innocent about most of the foreigners
that came to the tiny planet.

Even the TPL post on the asteroid was powerless, shackled by diplomatic
necessities to the pretence that the thick-witted Palladians were
capable of running their own world. "Hands off!" was the watch-word.

His swollen eyes squinting at the fluoro-flame lamps set in the rocky
ceiling of the tunneled street, MacCauley sighed heavily, feeling the
full weight of his predicament.

All his money had been on him. All that was left of his money was a
memory and a neat little slit just under the zip-seal flap of his hip
pocket. And on Pallas, where it was dog eat dog and the devil help the
one who lacked a full set of teeth, money was the means of obtaining
dental attention.

Yes, Mac was in a mess, for all his kit, including the last can of
Terrestrial cigarettes, were in the hotel room; even his blasters,
the slim, wicked pistols that projected a vibratory pencil-beam that
destroyed flesh and neural fibers and left the brain watery pulp, were
locked up in that dark little rat-hole up near the top of Pallas'
single, buried city. Mac was weaponless, except for a tempered bronze
knife in his shirt, on an outlaw world where a swift attack was the
best insurance against sudden death.

His hotel bill was payable every twenty-four hours, and his period of
grace had expired. Pallas being first and foremost a gambling planet,
it wasn't at all uncommon for a man to check into the best suite a
hotel could offer, his money-belt fat and heavy with a half-million in
platinum credits; leave in the early afternoon for a little fling at
the tables, and come back in the evening asking apologetically if he
might borrow the price of a shave so he could look nice on the trip
back home.

For that was the rule: no money, out you go and your baggage held
by right of a lockout. Everything on Pallas was operated by the
same ruling--cash strictly in advance. And to make sure that no
floaters were left to the dubious charity of the planetoid, there was
another standing rule. A law, this time; a duly enacted law of the
Palladian legislature and the sole ordinance that was enforced by the
foreign-sponsored native authorities.

Before a visitor was admitted to Pallas, he was first made to post a
bond equal to his passage back home. And that could not be touched or
refunded until he left.

MacCauley groaned aloud and looked about him. Walking blindly and
without thinking, very easy in the light gravity of low-powered
magna-gravs, he had entered a part of the sealed city new to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was in the native quarter, at the planetoid's core, where the
asterites were as thick as red dust on Mars--and for the first time Mac
saw a Kiddie policeman. He was wearing no more clothing than the rest
of his kind, just carried a staff of office, like the old Bow Street
Runners.

An idea suddenly made contact in MacCauley's mind. He signaled the
officer and dragged out a notebook and pencil, unnecessarily, as it
happened. The Kiddie, in sinuous gestures, signified that he could
understand English, partly by lip-reading, partly by picking up the
sound in some weird fashion through rock-conduction and the sensitive
soles of his splay feet.

Mac, enunciating carefully, spoke.

"One of your people has robbed me. I want him arrested. Where do I go?"

The Kiddie bobbed his head, and from the manner in which his
luminiferous glands sparkled balefully, it was evident where he thought
MacCauley should go. Nevertheless, he snapped out _his_ little pad and
stylus, and scrawled: "Commi wih me tu Offic he wil arange arest."

MacCauley deciphered the scribble. He shrugged and said, "Okay. Hop to
it, sonny." He walked beside the diminutive policeman for a few hundred
feet, glancing incuriously at the small burrows which pierced the rock
walls and kicking away chunks of the queer, spongy rock on which the
Kiddies subsisted, the equivalent of Earthly garbage.

He should have thought of the cops before, he realized. The Kiddies,
as a race, were not numerous, and he could probably bully them into
finding the thief and recovering his money. After all, why not?

He soon found out. The lolling half-breed Venusian interpreter who
loafed around the ratty, worm-infested police station heard his
complaint and deftly translated it for the benefit of a moth-eaten
Kiddie who seemed to be as much in charge here as anyone else.
MacCauley drew an easy breath, his first in two hours, and then--

The interpreter sing-songed, "Forty Earth-dollars, please. Filing fee."

MacCauley's eyes narrowed. The old squeeze play. "Don't be a sap," he
said flatly, his thin lips tight against his teeth. "I haven't got
forty cents. That little louse took everything that was in my pocket."

The Venusian smirked, and regarded his greenish, webbed hand with
great interest. "That is very bad, my friend," he said, and flicked a
flea from a fold in the skin of his wrinkled wrist. "Here on Pallas we
have a law; the citizens must be protected. When a foreigner makes an
accusation against a citizen, it is quite possible that he is wrong,
and a great injustice will have been done. As you know, there is only
one way to soothe a Palladian ... money."

MacCauley cursed bitterly, harsh, biting oaths. "All right," he said
then, forcing his tone to evenness. "I'll sign a guarantee of the
money. When you catch this pickpocket, you'll reclaim the money; then
I'll put up the bond pending trial."

By great effort the interpreter managed to look shocked. "That is
absurd. You must pay now; if the Palladian is innocent, he will not
have the money. No, it is impossible."

"If he's innocent it'll be because you caught the wrong guy. Why, by
all the Plutonian Ice Devils, should I have to pay for your mistake?"

The green-skinned man smirked again. "It is the law. The law is very
strict. If you do not like it, you can go back to the planet you came
from." And he turned away, busying himself with some important-looking
papers, dusty and much-handled. MacCauley was not too preoccupied to
note that the blubbery Venusian was holding them upside-down.

MacCauley socked his balled fist into his palm and wondered if pacing
the littered floor would help. He was now, he assured himself, in the
worst of all fixes. The time he'd been trapped between two hostile
groups of Mercurians who were settling a private argument with
quarter-mile lightning bolts was a pleasure compared to this. Then he'd
had his guns, at least, and no restrictions about using them.

He had to have his kit. Which meant getting his money back. It was
necessary, he decided, to play his trump card. He hadn't wanted to
reveal himself as a free-lancing TPL man; word would be sure to leak
out. But he certainly couldn't accomplish anything otherwise; the
chance of recovering the credits, and eventually his _materiel_, was
nil without some sort of aid. And that was what he could get only by
showing these small-time constables that he was Mr. Law himself. It may
be also that he was motivated by justifiable conceit in TPL itself.

"Okay," he snapped suddenly, startling the pudgy hybrid with the
sharpness of his voice. "I guess there's no point in keeping under
wraps any longer. Let me tell you who I am...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty minutes later, as he stumbled out of the warped stone building,
he was wondering dazedly why his TPL affiliation had done him no good.

Tri-Planet Law was an organization that had considerable history, nor
could all of it be written. It was the most potent single force in the
history of any planet of the Solar System, figured any way you like. It
was the only force whose rule was hardly ever challenged.

When you broke the law within the territories mandated by TPL, you did
so with the very greatest caution. And you never tried to fight back if
you were caught. It wasn't really a large organization, relative to the
vast throngs of intelligent life that swarmed the System. It was only
a tiny decimal of one per cent of the entire population of the thirty
inhabited globes. But when you consider that the total census showed
more than a hundred billion individuals of high enough brain-power to
be rated sentient, you can understand that a fraction of a per cent
does mean close to a hundred and thirty thousand persons united into
the best-organized police and military force that a hundred trained
social technicians could evolve.

That is why MacCauley couldn't understand the fact that the half-breed
interpreter had practically laughed in his face.

True, TPL's hundred and thirty thousand of personnel were largely on
the planets of Earth, Mars and Venus, plus their possessions and allied
states. TPL had no standing here, officially, but the organization
had a de facto reign over all of space by virtue of the fastest and
best-armed space-ships made. And Pallas, dependent upon the transient
trade, certainly shouldn't be able to afford to anger representative
of the body that ruled the space-lanes.

Something, Mac decided, was thoroughly rotten in the local checking
office of TPL. Something that might show why the operative on Pallas
hadn't begun to be able to find the man or men behind the narcophene
racket.

MacCauley hadn't shown himself there before because he didn't want
himself identified with the Law group. Now that he'd uselessly exposed
himself, that obstacle was nullified.

He'd found out where the place was just so he could avoid it. Pausing a
second to puzzle out its probable direction, he started off.

It was close, of course; nothing was far from anything on Pallas.
Within five minutes he was standing outside the building, rubbing his
chin and deciding that he could stand a wash-up before going in.

Like most of the asteroid's structures, this one seemed to have been
made by a blind moron for his elder brother's fifth birthday. Stepping
gingerly to avoid bringing the ceiling down about his ears, he made for
the washroom.

The Kiddie attendant was scrunched up in a corner, luminescing happily
over a former airlock handle. "Hey!" Mac said uselessly. A wadded paper
towel brought better results, and the Kiddie glanced up.

Of course, it had to be the Kiddie who lifted Mac's roll. The gods of
chance saw to that. In a trice Mac had backed the frightened Kiddie
into a corner, looking rather threatening what with his grim expression
and the bronze knife suddenly sprouting from his fist. He was fumbling
for the gesture that would convey, "Gimme!" to the asterite when the
interruption came.

"Having fun?"

Mac dropped the Kiddie and spun around, automatically reaching for a
blaster that wasn't there. "Who the devil are you?" he snarled.

The long Terrestrial newcomer leaned gingerly on a soot-covered
washstand and frowned. "Me? I work near here. Who are you?" He stuck a
cigarette in his taut lips, pinched the tip and inhaled sharply as it
flared bluely.

Something clicked in MacCauley's memory. Remembrances of long rows of
files, photographs.... The TPL agent for Pallas. He said, "You're
Kittrell, right?"

The long man nodded. "I might be," he said, "if you're somebody that's
got a right to know. So what?" He hadn't moved but his posture seemed
subtly altered, caution in every line of his frame. From the position
of his hands, Mac more than suspected he was armed.

Easing his hands behind his back, he twisted the stem of his
wristwatch. Kittrell jumped. "Hey!" he exclaimed. Sparks were fairly
snapping from the blazing dial of his own heavy, old-fashioned
timepiece--the recognition signal of TPL operatives. "I guess I am
Kittrell," the man acknowledged. "They told me they were sending
someone from the Narcotics division to take over on that narcophene
business. You him?"

"Yeah. Right now I'm having trouble of my own, though. This Kiddie
rolled me last night. Every cent I had; I can't even get back to my
hotel."

"Rolled you?" Kittrell's eyes widened. "I know this fella. He cleans
up around the office. Wait a minute." His thin, pale hands flashed in
intricate motions, meaningless to Mac. They were significant to the
Kiddie, though, for he replied as rapidly. Kittrell nodded. "I wouldn't
have thought it of him. Always thought he was too stupid to rob anybody
over ten."

That was a pretty dubious remark, Mac thought, but he ignored it. "Do
you suppose you can make him cough up?"

"Sure!" The other smiled cheerfully. "Like this!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mac was unprepared for the next move. Kittrell pulled his punch, of
course, because he didn't want to kill the frail Palladian, but his
heavy fist bounced the Kiddie off the floor and flung him to the base
of the wall. He lay there, his glow-glands jetting crimson beams of
fear and rage.

"Hey!" cried MacCauley. "Don't murder the poor son! That's no way to
get my dough back!"

Kittrell stared. Then a shadow passed over his face and he seemed to
lose interest. He shrugged. "Have it your way. What do you want me to
do--adopt him?"

"Ask him what he did with the money. Tell him he can have the metal
stuff; all I want back is the bills."

Kittrell, looking disgusted, semaphored the message. Kiddie faces
don't react as a human's does, but MacCauley was pretty sure there was
gratitude glowing on this one's knobby features. After a couple of
seconds' gesticulation, Kittrell looked around. "He says he's sorry
he took it. If you come with him he'll give you the money. He's got
it stashed away in the sty he lives in, a little farther along this
corridor."

"Will he do it?"

Kittrell shrugged again. "Guess so. Anyway, you're bigger than him--or
don't you like rough stuff?"

That, MacCauley thought, was hardly a friendly remark. He resolved
to take it up later; after all, it wasn't his fault that he was
superseding Kittrell. There really was no cause for jealousy in the
long man. "Coming?" Mac asked.

Kittrell shook his head. "Got to go back to the office for a minute.
I'll drop around in about ten minutes, though."

"Okay," said Mac, satisfied, and went out behind the Kiddie.

The Kiddie's dwelling was ugly and cluttered, but moderately clean.

The little asterite, with somewhat the attitude of a man who expects
a poke in the face, gestured to Mac to be seated on a hassock-like
affair. MacCauley rumbled: "Sure I'll sit down. I'll stay right here
until I get my dough back."

The Kiddie seemed to shrug resignedly; probably he just gave that
impression from his general demeanor. He slipped away into another
room. Mac just had time to think of the possibility that the Kiddie had
made a getaway when he was back again, holding MacCauley's billfold.

Mac counted it swiftly. "Where's the rest of it?" he grunted. The bills
were there, but there had been about two dollars in change--gone now.

The Kiddie looked scared but shook his head. "Won't tell me, huh?" Mac
blustered. "How would you like to be put away for robbery? I swore out
a complaint against you today; if I turn you over, it'll be a long time
before you get out."

The Kiddie looked more frightened than ever; he was practically
trembling. Mac was encouraged, but surprised by the reaction to his
threat--it shouldn't have been so great. He lived to regret the fact
that he didn't find out just why the Kiddie was so affected by the
threat of imprisonment.

"All right," he went on. "Suppose I let you keep the metal. Suppose I
pay you well, get you lots more. Gold and silver dollars. You'd like
that, wouldn't you?"

From the Palladian's sudden attitude of dog-like devotion, it was more
than clear that he would.

"Okay," Mac said. "I'll pay you one hundred dollars in silver quarters,
if--"

The Kiddie was ablaze with interest. Not taking his eyes off Mac, he
scuttled crab-wise over to a tablette, snatched up a notebook and
scrawled: "Il do anyhin wat do yu wan."

Mac grinned. "Fine. Listen carefully now. I'm looking for an Earthman.
He's somewhere on this planet, but I wouldn't know him if I saw him.
He is about two inches taller than me; weighs maybe two hundred
pounds--a little fatter than I am. He's blind, practically, in one eye.
That's all I can tell you, because those are the only things he can't
disguise."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Kiddie seemed suddenly reluctant, but was persuaded by a gesture of
Mac's--a gesture that cost him dear, as it turned out.

"Here," he said, to seal the bargain. "Here's an advance for you."
Dexterously he flipped his knife from some recess of his shirt and
presented it to the Kiddie.

Ecstacy was clearly shown by that Kiddie. His glow-glands fairly spat
large orange sparks of joy. The tempered bronze--it was made of that
metal only to avoid magnetic spotters--wasn't much good for cutting,
but it certainly was a conductor of electricity.

"Well?" MacCauley said, growing impatient. He tapped the engrossed
Kiddie and repeated the question. The asterite bobbed his head and
pressed a stud on his pad. The writing vanished, and he was scribbling
again.

"Hello there!" boomed a new voice from the doorway. "What's going on?"

MacCauley whirled. Kittrell was standing there, beaming broadly. "Hi,"
Mac said. "We were wondering--Hey! What the hell!"

Kittrell's eyes had narrowed and a snarl flashed out on his face. With
the fastest draw MacCauley had ever seen, he snapped out his gun and
blasted--

Not MacCauley. There was a stomach-squeezing hiss of sizzling flesh
behind Mac. He spun again, to see the Kiddie, his shoulder and half his
neck gone, slumped to the floor.

Mac knelt swiftly beside him. Dead as a Ganymedan Secessionist. "Now
what the hell did you do that for?" Mac demanded. "I was on the trail
of something hot." He stared at the pad and stylus that had dropped
from the dead asterite's limp hand.

"I kni the man yu wan he is th." That was all it said.

"_That's_ a big help," said MacCauley, confronting the other man, who
was strangely tense. He thrust the tablet at him. "Now what do I do?"

Kittrell scanned it briefly, and relaxed a bit. "It looked bad to me,"
he explained. "There was that damned Kiddie with a knife in his hand.
He had it up to throw at you--or me. Can't take chances."

Mac sighed, resigning himself to continued hard luck. "We all make
mistakes, I guess," he said. Then, hardening: "But you've made your
last boner on this case. From now on stay the hell away from me. I
don't like you and I don't like the way you do things." He moved toward
the door. Kittrell, lounging across it, obstructed his path--just
enough to stop him.

"Where're you going?" the bigger man asked.

"To report this," Mac snapped. "You'll get out of it all right."

"Don't report it."

"Why not?"

Kittrell grimaced distastefully. "Too much red tape. What the devil,
who'll know we were here?"

Mac snorted and filled his lungs preparatory to telling Kittrell just
what he thought of him. There was a sweetish, balsam-like taste to the
air, like the smell of a fir forest.

Or like the smell of narcophene.

He had picked up the knife; still had it in his hands. While he was
still figuring things out, his hand swept up with the knife still in
it, pressed against Kittrell's abdomen. Kittrell's draw had been fast.
Maybe he was naturally gun-slick--fast enough, maybe, for a lightning
draw like that to be natural to him. Maybe he was, but maybe he was
just burning up the years of his life twice as fast as normal under the
influence of the drug.

"If you don't want your gut slit, Kittrell, keep your hands where they
are!" Mac grated, his voice suddenly gone flat and hard.

Kittrell's hand had fluttered toward his shoulder holster; it stopped
as Mac spoke.

"I don't know whether you're really Kittrell or not--probably you are,"
Mac muttered. "But if you're in TPL now, you'll be out pretty soon. As
soon as I tell them you're a hophead."

Kittrell's face had gone white. Other than that there was no change as
his bleak eyes bored steadily into MacCauley's. "What are you talking
about?" he said evenly. "Take that thing out of my stomach."

"Oh, no!" Mac shook his head decisively. "You killed one of my
witnesses; you'll take his place. You're going to tell me how to find
the guy that sells you the narcophene."

"Sorry," said Kittrell, tautening still more, "but I can't." At the
last possible second his eyes flicked behind and over Mac's shoulder.

The thing that hit MacCauley on the back of the neck first didn't quite
knock him out. He was stunned, but in the half-second before the next
blow jolted him into complete darkness, he heard Kittrell conclude,
most casually: "You see, I _am_ the guy who sells the narcophene."

       *       *       *       *       *

A shiver rippled along Mac's spine, and another one. That was his first
waking impression. He was cold, frozen stiff, he decided next, when his
limbs failed to react to the stimuli of his neural commands. As the fog
cleared away from his aching head he discovered that his hands were
tightly bound behind him, hobbles on his feet to keep him from walking
far or fast.

Not that he could have gone anywhere much. He was in a bare little
metal room, lying on the grating that supplanted decks in most modern
spacers. Not much point in getting up, he realized, and merely hitched
himself into a more comfortable position in a corner, moving as well as
he could under the unaccustomed drag of full Earth gravity.

He was in the lock-room, the chamber before an airlock. He felt vaguely
unhappy. Whatever was coming, he was sure he wouldn't like it.

Behind him a heavy door eased open. Boots thumped hollowly on the
grids and a familiar voice sounded, echoing from the bare metal walls.
"Hello, MacCauley. How's the head?"

"Go to hell," Mac suggested. He craned his neck and stared full into
Kittrell's face. There was a curious mixture of emotions there; faint
sorrow, an unpleasant sort of crooked leer, and an air of boredom--each
was visible. Kittrell shrugged.

"I guess you know what you're up against?"

"Sure." MacCauley tried to shrug, too, but succeeded only in tearing
a patch of skin from his wrists where the wire bonds were tightest.
"You're going to shove me out."

"I'm afraid so. Believe me, I'd rather not. I think you're a good chap;
once I wanted to be like you--loyal to the service. They stuck me out
here and made a desk clerk of me, when I would have given my arm to do
some real work. I got a good salary; there was prestige enough whenever
I could get back to Boston and show off. It was a good job, in a way.
But there was nothing to do. Then I intercepted a load of narcophene.
Like everybody else, I thought I could beat it. I didn't. I tried it
and couldn't stop."

He stopped abruptly and scanned MacCauley's face through narrowed eyes.
"You see how it is?" he questioned.

MacCauley tried to stall for time. Tensing his chest muscles against
the bruises, he said, "Give me a cigarette, Kittrell? That's the
usual privilege of the condemned man." The lunatic obligingly popped
a brown-paper cylinder between his lips, squeezed the tip to light
it. Mac suddenly heard more footsteps, lighter ones but many of them.
"What's that?"

"Just my Kiddies," the dope peddler explained, as a dozen of them
trotted into the room and ranged themselves, immobile, along the
walls. "They've never seen an air-breather--that's you--in empty space,
and they don't believe it will be fatal. You don't mind if they watch,
do you?"

Mac could hold it in no longer. "Kittrell," he blurted, "you're crazy
as a coot!"

Kittrell, wading through Kiddies whose faces shone an excited red,
turned a surprised stare. "I've been afraid of that," he said worriedly
over his shoulder. His long fingers pressed a stud by the 'lock,
and the inner valve whined open. "You see, that's the trouble with
narcophene. You know what's happening to you, but you just don't give a
damn. God, it's cold in this 'lock!"

He stood there, one foot on the coaming of the 'lock, peering around
the dark, icy chamber. The lawman braced his back to the wall, shoved
up. "It's a hell of a death, Kittrell," he said, his voice strained.

Kittrell replied dreamily. "Is it? I don't know. It isn't bad. It's
clean, at least, and the worms don't get you." Absently he fended
off the crew of impatient, crowding Kiddies. He stared silently into
nothingness, for a long minute.

       *       *       *       *       *

MacCauley found he could reach his pocket, and his heart tried to
impale itself on his palate. Eagerly he tore more flesh from his raw
wrists, strained his fingers to plumb the depths of the pocket. A
weapon--anything.

And his fingers found nothing. He remembered; that this was the pocket
the dead asterite had picked; nothing there but a slit.

On the automatic return trip, his fingers, numbed by disheartenment,
sent a message to his brain; a message of cold. He disregarded it for a
split second.

Then, just as Kittrell was opening his mouth to speak, the correct
interpretation of that coolness penetrated Mac's consciousness.
Desperately he fumbled at the thing that was woven to his broad belt:
wrenched at it with every atom of strength at his command. It came
free; he twisted suddenly and something metallic jingled musically
in the far corner of the 'lock, sending vibrations through the grid
flooring to be picked up by the Palladians. The jingle of metal--and
the Kiddies loved metal insanely!

"Money!" roared MacCauley. And, "Money! In the 'lock! Copper--metal! Go
get it!"

Kittrell vanished, washed into the airlock by an overflowing wave of
Palladians. Hands fumbling desperately behind him for the control
switch--where was it!--Mac cursed his stiff, ineffectual fingers and
his inability to see behind his back. He touched a switch--no, not that
one!--and another, jabbed at it. Motors hummed softly, the scrambling
noise died away as the inner door swung shut--so slowly!--and then for
a second the only sound in the chamber was the harsh sobbing of Mac's
breath as he slumped weakly against the chill metal wall.

Until that semi-silence was broken by the descending siren-scream of
the outer door's opening, abruptly terminating in a _whooosh_ as the
last molecules of air tore into the vacuum without, dragging with
irresistible force at the chunks of matter, living and dead, that tried
to obstruct its passage....

       *       *       *       *       *

"And that's the story." MacCauley turned away from the recorder.
"Here's the notebook I found among Kittrell's things." He flipped a
thin, black pad at the major. "I think you'll be able to break the code
easily enough, as there are enough names known for you to work on. It
seems to include his whole organization."

Major Copeland glanced at the cabalistic signs incuriously, then
ticketed the book and slipped it into a pneumatic tube.

"What bothers me," he complained, "is why Kittrell didn't claw his way
out of the 'lock. Sounds to me as though he had plenty of time."

Mac gestured inquiringly at his superior, received a nod, and with a
sigh unclipped his Sam Browne. "Kittrell? Probably stumbled and slammed
his head against a rivet." He stood up suddenly, savagely snubbed out
a freshly lit cigarette. "Oh, hell! I'll tell you what I really think,
Major--I don't believe Kittrell tried to get out of there. I don't
think he cared, and I haven't forgotten what he said about dying that
way."

"Could be," Copeland agreed. "And what did you say that stuff was that
saved your life?"

Mac smiled. "Money, of a sort. You know where I was stationed last
year?"

"Some place on Earth, wasn't it?"

MacCauley nodded. "China. Got to know some of the people there. Got
kind of chummy with one of them; she gave me a present when I left, as
a keepsake. A string of what they call "cash." It's a kind of money
they used to use; square pieces of copper with holes in the middle. Had
'em strung together and sewn onto a belt. Well, you know how Palladians
feel about copper." His eyes crinkled again. "That was a pretty good
keepsake--not worth much, but it bought my life."

Both men were silent for a while. Then, "What are your plans now,
MacCauley? I've recommended you for promotion, to fill Kittrell's job
on Pallas. You'll get a higher rating, more pay--and all the time in
the world to yourself."

MacCauley shook his head. "Sorry, Major," he said, "But that's not what
I want. My plans are extra-special. Say," he went on, sitting down
and staring earnestly at Copeland, "have you ever heard the story of
how Manhattan Island--that's part of New York City--was bought from
the ancient Indians? Twenty-four dollars' worth of junk beads--that's
what they paid the Indians for it. Now the land is worth billions of
dollars--a square foot of it brings the best part of a million."

"So?" The major was interested but lacked comprehension. "What's that
got to do with your resignation?"

MacCauley smiled. "A lot," he answered. "Did it ever occur to you that
intelligent salesmanship can do wonders? And did you ever think of the
possibilities that you could realize on Pallas with--say--a couple of
dozen thousand dollars' worth of copper and other metal junk?"

The major looked startled. "No--not till now," he added, understanding
dawning. "And what you're going to do is--?"

"What I'm going to do," MacCauley beamed, "is convert reward money into
junk. And then, Major, I'll begin to convert the junk--into a kingdom.
I'm going to buy up a world--a wide-open world--with a boatload of
scrap metal!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Asteroid of the Damned, by Dirk Wylie

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ASTEROID OF THE DAMNED ***

***** This file should be named 62168.txt or 62168.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/1/6/62168/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
