The Project Gutenberg EBook of Space Oasis, by Raymond Z. Gallun

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Space Oasis

Author: Raymond Z. Gallun

Release Date: May 21, 2020 [EBook #62186]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPACE OASIS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              SPACE OASIS

                         By RAYMOND Z. GALLUN

                  Space-weary rocketmen dreamed of an
                 asteroid Earth. But power-mad Norman
                    Haynes had other plans--and he
                     spread his control lines in a
                   doom-net for that oasis in space.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I found Nick Mavrocordatus scanning the bulletin board at the Haynes
Shipping Office on Enterprize Asteroid, when I came back with a load of
ore from the meteor swarms.

He looked at me with that funny curve on his lips, that might have been
called a smile, and said, "Hi, Chet," as casually as though we'd seen
each other within the last twenty-four hours.... "Queer laws they got
in the Space Code, eh? The one that insists on the posting of casualty
lists, for instance. You'd think the Haynes Company would like to keep
such things dark."

I didn't say anything for a moment, as my eyes went down those narrow,
typed columns on the bulletin board: Joe Tiffany--dead--space armor
defect.... Hermann Schmidt and Lan Harool--missing--vicinity of
Pallas.... Irvin Davidson--hospitalized--space blindness....

There was a score of names of men I didn't know, in that
space-blindness column. And beneath, there was a much longer line of
common Earth-born and Martian John-Henrys, with the laconic tag added
at the top--_hospitalized_--_mental_. Ditto marks saved the trouble of
retyping the tag itself, after each name.

One name caught my eye.

Ted Bradley was listed there. Ted Bradley from St. Louis, my and Nick
Mavrocordatus' home town. It gave me a little jolt, and a momentary
lump somewhere under my Adam's Apple. I knew the state Bradley would be
in. Not a man any more--no longer keen and sure of himself. A year out
here among the asteroids had changed all that forever.

Shoving from one drifting, meteoric lump to another, in a tiny space
boat. Chipping at those huge, grey masses with a test hammer that
makes no sound in the voidal vacuum. Crawling over jagged surfaces,
looking for ores of radium and tantalum and carium--stuff fabulously
costly enough to be worth collecting, for shipment back to the
industries of Earth, at fabulous freight rates, on rocket craft whose
pay-load is so small, and where every gram of mass is at premium.

No, Ted Bradley would never be himself again. Like so many others. It
was an old story. The almost complete lack of gravity, out here among
the asteroids, had disturbed his nerve-centers, while cosmic rays
seeped through his leaded helmet, slowly damaging his brain.

There was more to it than the airlessness, and absence of weight, and
the cosmic rays. There was the utter silence, and the steady stars, and
the blackness between them, and the blackness of the shadows, like the
fangs of devils in the blazing sunshine. All of this was harder than
the soul of any living being.

And on top of all this, there was usually defeat and shattered hope.
Not many futures were made among the asteroids by those who dug for
their living. Prices of things brought from Earth in fragile, costly
space craft were too high. Moments of freedom and company were too
rare, and so, hard-won wealth ran like water.

Ted Bradley was gone from us. Call him a corpse, really. In the
hospital here on Enterprize, he was either a raving maniac, or
else--almost worse--he was like a little child, crooning over the
wonder of his fingers.

It got me for a second. But then I shrugged. I'd been out here two
years. An old timer. I knew how empires were built. I knew, better
than most, how to get along out here. Be fatalistic and casual. Don't
worry. Don't plan too much. That way I'd stayed right-side-up. I'd even
had quite a lot of fun, being an adventurer, against that gigantic,
awesome background of the void.

I didn't consider my thoughts about Ted Bradley worth mentioning to
Nick Mavrocordatus. He was probably thinking about Ted, too, and that
was enough.

"Come on, Nick," I said. "They've got my ore weighed and analyzed for
content in the hopper rooms. I'm going into the pay-office and get my
dough. Then we might shove off to the Iridium Circle, or some other
joint, and have us a time, huh?"

Nick laughed, then, good-naturedly, triumphantly. I gave him a sharp
glance, noticing that under his faintly bitter air, there seemed to be
something big. Some idea that gripped him, confused him, thrilled him.
His small, knotty body was taut with it; his dark eyes, under the curly
black hair that straggled down his forehead, glowed with a far-away
look.

Of course, he was still very young--only twenty-two, which to me,
at twenty-five, with a six-months edge of asteroid-lore beyond his
year and a half of experience, made me feel old and disillusioned and
practical, by comparison.

"All right, Chet," he said at last. "Let's get your money. Celebrations
are in order--on me, though. But I guess we'd better soft-pedal them
some. I've got a lot to tell you, and more to do."

I didn't give his words proper attention, just then. I swaggered into
the pay office, where a couple of stenogs clicked typewriters, and
where Norman Haynes, acting head of the Haynes Shipping Company, sat at
his desk, under the painted portrait of his uncle, that grizzled old
veteran, Art Haynes, who had retired years ago, and who now lived on
Earth.

I knew old Art only by reputation. But that was enough to arouse my
deep respect. Between nephew and uncle there was a difference as great
as between night and day. The one, the founder, unafraid to dirty his
hands and face death, and build for the future. Tough, yes, but square,
and willing to pay bonuses to miners even while he'd been struggling
to expand his company, and open up vast, new space trails. The other,
an arm-chair director, holding on tight, now, to an asteroid empire,
legally free of his control, but whose full resources came eventually
into his hands at the expense of others, because he controlled the
fragile, difficult supply lines.

At sight of me, Norman Haynes arose from his chair. He was very tall,
and he wore an immaculate business suit. He was smooth-shaven, with a
neat haircut, in contrast to my shaggy locks and bristles. Across his
face spread a smile of greeting as broad as it was false.

"Well--Chet Wallace," he said. "You've done some marvelous meteor
mining, this trip: Nineteen hundred dollars' worth of radium-actinium
ore! Splendid! Maybe you'll do even better next time!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Yeah! I'd seen and heard Norman Haynes act and talk like this before.
He handed out the same line to all of the miners. To me it was forever
irritating. Always I'd wanted to turn that long nose of his back
against his right ear. He and his words were both phony. Always he used
a condescending tone. And I felt that he was a bloodsucker. My anger
was further increased, now, because of Ted Bradley.

I guess I sneered. "Don't worry about those nineteen hundred dollars,
Mr. Haynes," I said. "When I buy grub, and a few things I need, and
have a little blow, you'll have the money all back."

Beside the office railing there was a machine--a cigarette vendor. Into
a roller system at its top, I inserted two five-dollar bills from my
pay. There was a faint whir as the robot photographic apparatus checked
the denominations of the notes, and proved their authenticity. Two
packs of cigarettes slipped down into the receiver arrangement.

"Five bucks apiece, Haynes," I said. "At a fair shipping rate,
cigarettes brought out from Earth aren't worth much more than three
bucks. But you're just a dirty chiseller, not satisfied with a fair
profit. Costs here in the asteroids are naturally plenty steep; but you
make a bad situation worse by charging at least twenty-five per-cent
more than's reasonable! A Venutian stink-louse is more of a gentleman
than you are, Haynes!"

Oh, there was a Satanic satisfaction in feeling the snarl in my throat,
and seeing Haynes' face go purplish red, and then white with surprise
and fury. Some other space men had entered the pay office, and they hid
their grins of pleasure behind calloused palms.

First I thought Norman Haynes would swing at me. But he didn't. He
lacked that kind of nerve. He began to sputter and curse under his
breath, and I thought of a snake hissing. I felt the danger of it,
though--danger that broods and plans, and doesn't come out into the
open, but waits its chance to strike. Knowing that it was there,
sizzling in Haynes' mind, gave me a thrill.

Casually I tossed one of the packs of cigarettes to Nick Mavrocordatus,
who had come with me into the pay office. He gave me a nudge, which
meant we'd better scram. When we were out of the building, he held
me off from going to any of the few tawdry saloons there under the
small, glassed-in airdome of Enterprize City, the one shabby scrap of
civilization and excuse for comfort.

"No drinks now, Chet," Nick whispered. "Can't chance it. Got to keep
on our toes. In one way I'm glad you talked down to that--whatever you
want to call him. But you've made us the worst possible enemy we could
have--now."

I shrugged. "What were you gonna tell me before, Nick?" I demanded. "I
gathered you had something plenty big in view."

He answered me so abruptly that I didn't quite believe my ears at
first. "Pa and Sis and Geedeh and I, have made good, Chet," he said.
"We found--not just pickings--but a real fortune in ore, on planetoid
439. So rich is the deposit that we could buy our own smelting and
purifying machinery, and hire ships under our own control, to take the
refined metals back to Earth!"

"You're kidding, Nick," I said amazedly.

"Not a bit of it," he returned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then I was pumping his hand, congratulating him. Really good luck was
a phenomenon among the asteroids. That friends of mine, among the
thousands of hopeful ones that I didn't know, should grab the jack-pot,
seemed almost impossible.

"I suppose you'll all be leaving us soon," I told him. "Going back to
Earth, living the lives of millionaires. I'm glad for you all, kid.
Your Pa can raise his flowers and grapes, instead of starting up in the
truck-garden business again. Your sis, Irene, can study her painting
and her music, like she wants to."

Anybody can see the way my thoughts were going just then. When you
start out green for the Minor Planets, that's part of what's in your
mind, first--get rich, come back to Earth.

Nick sighed heavily as we walked along. That funny smile was on
his lips again. He glanced around, and the emerald light of the
illuminators was on his young face.

Then he said, "I don't think it's quite safe to talk here, Chet.
Better come to our old space jaloppy, the _Corfu_."

The _Corfu_ was on the ways outside the dome. We put on space suits to
reach it. Inside, the old crate smelled of cooking odors, some of them
maybe accumulated over the eighteen months the Mavrocordatuses had been
asteroid mining. Old ships are hard to ventilate, with their imperfect
air-purifiers.

The instruments in the control room, were battered and patched; and
from the living quarters to the rear, issued a duet of snores--one
throaty and rattly, Pa Mavrocordatus' beyond doubt; and the other an
intermittent hiss, originating unquestionably in the dust-filtering
hairs in the larynx of Geedeh, the little Martian scientist, whom Nick
had befriended.

"I can't figure you out, Nick," I said. "Rich, and not leaving this
hell-hole of space. You're an idiot."

"So are you, Chet," he returned knowingly. "In my place, you wouldn't
go either--at least not without regrets. In spite of all hell, there's
something big here in space that gets you. You feel like nothing,
yourself. But you feel that you're part of something terribly huge and
terribly important. You'd be happy on Earth for a week; then you'd
begin to smother inside. The Minor Planets have become our home, Chet.
It's too late to break the ties."

Slowly it soaked into my mind that Nick was right.

"Not to say anything bad against old Mother Earth, Chet," he continued.
"Far from it! That's just what's needed out here--a little touch of
our native scene. Growing things. A piece of blue sky, maybe. Enough
gravity to make a man believe in solid ground again."

Right then I began to smell Nick's plan, not only what it was, but all
the impractical dreamer part of it.

I began to grin, but there was a kind of sadness in me, too. "Sure!
Sure, Nick!" I chided. "The idea's as old as the hills! Rejuvenate
some asteroid. Bring in soil and water and air from Earth. Install a
big gravity-generating unit. Ha! Have you any idea how many ships it
would take to bring those thousands and thousands of tons of stuff out
here--even to get started?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I was talking loud. My voice was booming through the rusty hull of the
_Corfu_, making ringing echoes. So just about as I finished, they were
all around me. Pa Mavrocordatus, in pajamas and ragged dressing gown,
his handle-bar moustaches bristling. Geedeh, the tiny Martian, draped
in a checkered Earthly blanket, his great eyes blinking, and his tiny
fingers, with fleshy knobs at their ends instead of nails, twiddling
nervously near the center of his barrel-chest. And Irene, too, standing
straight and defiant and little, in her blue smock.

Irene hadn't been sleeping. Probably she'd been washing dishes, and
straightening up the galley after supper. She still had a dish towel in
her hands. Wealth hadn't altered the Mavrocordatus' mode of life, yet.
Irene looked like a bold little kewpie, her dark head of tousled, curly
hair, not up to my shoulder. She was exquisitely pretty; but now she
was somewhat irritated.

She shook a finger up at me, angrily. "You think Nick has a dumb idea,
eh, Chet Wallace?" she accused. "That's only because you don't know
what you're talking about! We won't have to bring a drop of water, or a
molecule of air or soil, out from Earth! You ask Geedeh!"

I turned toward the little Martian. The dark pupil-slits, and the
yellow irises of his huge eyes, covered me. "Irene has spoken the
truth, Chet," he told me in his slow, labored English. "The Asteroid
Belt, the many hundreds of fragments that compose it, are the remains
of a planet that exploded. So there is soil on many of the asteroids.
Dried out--yes--after most of the water and air disappeared into space,
following the catastrophe. But the soil can still be useful. And there
is still water, not in free, liquid form, but combined in ancient rock
strata; gypsum, especially. It is like on Mars, when the atmosphere
began to get too thin for us to breathe, and the water very scarce on
the dusty deserts."

I said nothing, wished I had kept silent.

"We roasted gypsum in atomic furnaces," Geedeh finished, "driving
the water out as steam, and reclaiming it for our underground
cities. The same can be done here among the Minor Planets. And since
water is hydrogen dioxide, oxygen can be obtained from it, too, by
electrolysis. Nitrogen and carbon dioxide, necessary to complete the
new atmosphere, which will be prevented from leaking into space by the
force of the artificial gravity, can be obtained from native nitrates,
and other compounds. Only vital parts of the machinery need be brought
out from Earth and Mars by rocket. The rest can be made here, from
native materials."

Geedeh's voice, as he spoke to me, was a soft, sibilant whisper, like
the rustle of red dust in a cold, thin, Martian wind.

"You bet," Pa Mavrocordatus enthused. "Nick's got a good idea. I'm
gonna raise my flowers! I'm gonna raise tomatoes and cabbages and
carrots, right here on one of them asteroids!"

It struck me as funny--asteroids--cabbages! Nothing I could think of,
could seem quite that far apart. Black, airless vacuum, rough rocks,
and raw, spacial sunshine! And things from a truck garden! It didn't
match. But then, Pa Mavrocordatus didn't match the asteroids either!
He'd had a truck garden once, outside of St. Louis. And yet he was out
here in space, and had been for a year and a half!

Well, even if the idea _was_ practical, I thought first that they were
still just dreaming--kidding themselves that it would be a cinch to
accomplish. And not being able to fight through.

Then I glanced back at Nick. That look on his face was there again. A
strange mixture of confidence, worry, grimness, and vision. It came to
me then that he was no kid at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Let me in on the job?" I asked hopefully.

"Sure!" Nick returned. "We wouldn't be telling you all this, if we
didn't want you. That's why we came back to Enterprize--hoping to find
you around some place."

So I was in. Part of a wild scheme of progress--more thrilling
and inspiring because it seemed so wild. An asteroid made into a
tiny, artificial Earth! A boon to void-weary space men! A source of
cheap food supplies, as well as a place to rest up. A new stage of
colonization--empire building!

And then I thought I heard a sound--a faint clinking outside of the
hull of the _Corfu_. At once, I was alert--taut. Maybe half of my
sudden worry was intuition, or a form of telepathy. When you've been
out in deep space, a million miles away from any other living soul, you
feel a vast, hollow loneliness, that perhaps is mostly the absence of
human telepathy waves from other minds. But when you have people around
you once more, your sixth sense seems keener for the period of lack.
That was why I was sure of an eavesdropper, sensing his presence. With
proper sub-microphonic equipment, a man outside a space ship can hear
every word spoken inside.

Nick felt it too. "But we'd better look and see," he whispered. "Norman
Haynes keeps spies around. And he may have heard rumors. You can't keep
a project like ours secret very long. It's too big."

My pulses jumped with fear, as I piled into my space suit. But when
Nick and I got through the airlock together, there was nobody in sight.
Only some footprints in the faint rocket dust of the ways, covering our
own footprints, where we'd passed before, coming to the _Corfu_. Our
flashlights showed them plainly.

"Having a rejuvenated asteroid in these parts, producing fresh food
and so forth, would take a lot of trade away from the Haynes Shipping
Company, wouldn't it?" I said when we were back in the cabin once
more. "Norman Haynes wouldn't be practically boss of the Minor Planets
anymore, would he? He wouldn't like that. He'll fight us."

"We need you, Chet," Irene said, her eyes appealing. That was enough
for me.

"We'd better blast off right away," Nick added. "We're going to
asteroid 487, Chet. Its new name is Paradise. It's the one we've
picked."


                                  II

Asteroid 487 was the usual thing. A torn, jagged, airless fragment.
It was no paradise yet, unless it was a paradise of devils. Nick had
a thousand men hired--space roustabouts, and a lot of mechanics and
technicians, mostly fresh from Earth. Sure, it's hard handling a bunch
like that, but there was nothing in this difficulty that we didn't know
was part of the job. Some of our outfit gave us horse-laughs, but they
worked. The pay was good.

The ships came through with the packed loads of machinery. Atomic
forges blazed, purifying native meteoric iron to complete the vast
gravity-generating machine, sunk in a shaft at the center of the
planetoid, ten miles down. Geedeh directed most of the work. Nick and
I saw that orders were carried out, swearing, sweating, and making
speeches intended to inspire.

And then the trouble started.

A rocket, bringing in food, and money to pay our crews, blew up in
space, just as it was coming close. The light of the blast was blinding
and awesome, making even the bright stars seem to vanish for a moment.
Atomic rocket fuel going up. Gobs of molten metal dripped groundward,
like real meteors heated in an atmosphere which still didn't exist.

It could have been an accident. You can't always control titanic atomic
power, and space ships fly to pieces quite frequently. But then I had a
suspicion that maybe this wasn't an accident.

Nick and I were in the open plain to see it happen. He'd just come from
the airtight barracks we'd built. His face didn't change much behind
the quartz crystal of his oxygen helmet--it only sobered a trifle.
While the fiery wreckage of the rocket was still falling in shreds and
fragments, he spoke, his voice clicking in my receptor phones:

"Yeah, Chet.... And there's trouble on asteroid 439, too, where our
mines are located. I just got the radio message, back at the office.
Sabotage, and some men killed. It seems that some of the workmen are
trying to break things up for us. Harley's in charge. I think he can
handle matters--for a while."

"I hope so," I answered fervently. "If the work only turns out right at
this end. With that ship smashed, we'll be on short rations for a week.
And we've lost some important machinery. The pay money's insured, but
the men won't like the delay."

I didn't expect much trouble from the crew--yet. It was Irene that
really helped the most--mastered the situation. She'd taken over the
management of the kitchens since the start of the work.

But now she had an additional job. She talked to that rough crew of
ours. "We're going to win, boys!" she told them. "We know what we've
got to do: Our task is for the good of every one of us--and for many
people yet to come!"

Simple, straightforward, inspiring talk. Funny what men will do for
a pretty girl--against hell itself. But that wasn't all of it. The
paintings of hers, that she'd hung in our recreation room, showed what
asteroid 487 _could_ be, when we were finished with it.

Space men are the toughest kind of adventurers that ever lived. But
adventurers are always optimists, sentimentalists, romanticists, no
matter how hard the exterior. And space men, by the very nature of the
appalling region to which they belong, believe in miracles.

       *       *       *       *       *

They cheered the thought--most of those tough men. I cheered, too. But
the miracle hadn't happened yet, and in the back of my mind, there
was always the fear that it wouldn't happen. Those crags were still
bleak and star-washed. Deader than any tomb! It wasn't an impossible
wonder--technically--to change all this. But perhaps it was impossible,
anyway--because of Norman Haynes! He was the only person who had the
power and the reason to stop all that we were attempting. The sabotage
and killings must be incited by him--certain members of our crews must
be in his hire. Quite probably the rocket that had blown up had been
secretly mined with explosive, under his orders, too.

But there is nothing harder to fight than those subtle methods. We had
no proof, and no easy means of getting it. We could only go on with
our task. Geedeh and the rest of us worked hopefully. One segment of
asteroid 487, had been part of the surface of that old world that had
exploded. From here we spread the dry soil over the planetoid's jagged
terrain, drawing it in atom trucks. More soil was brought in from other
asteroids. The great rock-roasting furnaces were put up. Gypsum was
heated in them, releasing its water in great clouds of steam, which
the artificial gravity kept from drifting off into space. Some of the
water, under electrolysis, yielded oxygen. Nitrogen came from nitrates.

Our gravity machine needed readjustments now and then. To a large
extent, the thousands of parts that composed it were electrical. Great
coils converted magnetic force into gravitation.

One ship reached us all right, bringing seeds and food. Another didn't.
It blew up in space, the second to go. Then somebody tried to get
Geedeh, the Martian, with a heat ray. Another food ship failed to
arrive.

Then Norman Haynes came to visit us. He landed before we had a chance
to refuse to receive him. He had a body-guard of a dozen men. He was
our enemy, but we couldn't prove it. He seemed to have forgotten the
little brush between himself and me, at his office.

"Splendid layout you've got, Wallace and Mavrocordatus!" he said to
Nick and me, pronouncing Nick's name perfectly. He sounded very much
like his usual self. "Of course there's bound to be difficulties.
Trouble with crews, and so on. It's hard to get people to believe in
a project as fantastic as this. I didn't quite believe in it, either,
at first. But the facts are proved, now that the groundwork is laid.
You'll need help, fellows. I can give it to you."

He was smiling, but under the smile I could see a snaky smirk, which
probably he didn't know showed. I felt fury rising inside me. He was
trying to get control of our project, now that he saw for sure that it
could amount to something. Competition he feared, but if he had control
he could enforce his high prices, keep his empire, and expand his
wealth by millions of dollars. His dirty work must have been partly an
attempt to force the issue.

"Thanks," Nick told him quietly. "But we prefer to do everything alone."

Our visitor shrugged, standing there at the door of his space boat.
"Okay," he breezed. "Get in touch with me, if you feel you need me!"

Some hours later, a radiogram came through from Earth.
"_Congratulations!_" it read. "_Stick to your guns! I like people with
imagination. Maybe I'll be back in harness soon myself.--Art Haynes._"

       *       *       *       *       *

"He's probably just being sarcastic," I said bitterly.

"Old devil!" Pa Mavrocordatus growled.

Two men were killed just thirty minutes after the message was received.
A little thin-faced fellow named Sparr did it. But he got away in a
space boat before we could catch him. A paid killer and trouble maker.

The incident put our crew more on edge than before. A half dozen of the
newcomers--mechanics from Earth--quit abruptly. Our food was almost
gone. We got another shipload in, but the growing unrest didn't abate,
though we kept on for another month. There was similar trouble on 439,
where the Mavrocordatus money came from. But maybe we'd make the grade,
anyway.

We had a pretty dense atmosphere already, on Paradise Asteroid. The
black sky had turned blue now. The ground was moist with water. Earthly
buildings were going up. Pa Mavrocordatus had had seeds and small trees
and things planted. It was that deceptive moment of success, before the
real blow came.

After sunset one night, I heard shots. I raced out of the barracks,
Geedeh, Irene, and Pa Mavrocordatus following me. We all carried blast
tubes.

We found Nick in a gorge, his body half burned through, just above his
right hip. But he was still alive. He had a blast tube in one hand.
Two men lay on the rocks and earth in front of him, dead. Beside them,
glinting in our flashlight beams, was an aluminum cylinder.

"It's a bacteria culture container, Chet," Nick whispered. "They had me
caught, and they bragged a little before I did some fast moving, and
got one of their blast tubes. Venutian Black-Rot germs. They were going
to dump them in the drinking water supply. They mentioned--Haynes...."

Nick couldn't say much more than that. But he'd saved our lives. He
died there in my arms, a hero to progress, a little breeze in the new
atmosphere he'd helped to create rumpling his curly hair. He'd died for
his dream of beauty and betterment.

Poor little Irene couldn't even cry. Her face was white, and she was
stricken mute. Her pa was shaken by great sobs, and he babbled threats.
I told him to shut up. Geedeh cursed in his own language, his voice a
soft, deadly hiss, his little fists clenching and unclenching.

"Too bad Nick had to kill these men!" I growled. "We could have made
'em talk. We'd have evidence. The law would take care of Norman
Haynes!"

"But we ain't got nothing!" Pa Mavrocordatus groaned. "Nothing!"

Geedeh's face was twisted into a Martian snarl of hate. Irene stared,
as though she were somewhere far away. I tried putting my arm around
her, to bring her back to us. It was a minute before she seemed to
realize I was there.

"Irene," I said. "I love you. We all love you. Buck up, kid. We can't
quit now--ever! We'd be letting Nick down."

She just nodded. She couldn't talk.

       *       *       *       *       *

A couple of hours later I was meeting our workers in our office. Most
of them tried to be decent about it. "We'd like to stick, Wallace. But
how can we? Nothing to eat...." That was what most of them said, in one
way or another.

And how could I answer them?

Some were not so regretful, of course. Some were downright ugly. A
little crazy with space perhaps, or else hopped up with propaganda that
secret agents in Haynes' hire had been spreading among them.

"Why should we work for you anyway?" they snarled. "Even for good
money, most of which we haven't collected? You're probably like what
we're used to. Just fixing up another place here, to clip us in the
end, charging us prices sky high. Your 'Paradise' is just a little
fancier, that's all."

So they turned away, and the exodus began. The freight ships blasted
off, one by one, with loads of men. We couldn't stop them. And soon the
silence closed in. We were left alone to bury Nick. The small sun was
bright on the rough pinnacles, and their naked grey stone was bluely
murky in the new air. There was a humid warmth of summer around us.

Just then, I didn't even feel exactly angry, in the blackness of
failure, Norman Haynes had won, so far. What would be his next step in
completing our final defeat?

I spent some time in the office, going over records. Presently Pa
Mavrocordatus came rushing from the barracks. His whole fat body
sagged, as he paused before me. His face was like paste. He didn't seem
quite alive.

"Irene," he croaked. "She's gone ... too...."

I ran with him to her quarters. There was some disorder. A picture of
her mother was tipped over on a little metal dressing table. A rug was
rumpled, and there was some clothing scattered on the floor. That was
all.

Geedeh had entered her quarters, too. "Kidnapped," he hissed.

What Haynes meant to accomplish by having his agents, carry off Irene,
I couldn't imagine. The hate I felt blurred all but the thought of
getting her back to safety. The urge was like a dagger-point, sharp and
clear in the chaos of memories. I knew how much she meant to me now.

"I need a rocket," I said quietly. "The fastest we've got. I want to
radio the Space Patrol, too."

"There are no ships left here," Geedeh returned. "The men took them
all, except a little flier, which they meant us to have. But somebody
has smashed it. Our big radio transmitter is smashed, also."

A minute later I was clawing in the wreckage of tubes and wires, there
in the radio room. The apparatus was completely beyond repair. For the
time being we were helpless, stranded on our asteroid. For a moment
I felt little shouts of madness shrieking in my brain. But Geedeh's
stabbing glance warned me that this was not the way. I fought back, out
of that flash of mania.

"We'd better break out all of our weapons, Geedeh," I said. "Haynes has
gone too deep to back out now. He's in danger of the Patrol if we talk,
so he'll have to strike at us soon."

Thus we prepared ourselves as well as we could, for attack. Geedeh,
Pa Mavrocordatus, and I. We equipped ourselves with our best
armament--atomic rifles. Pa Mavrocordatus had gotten over most of his
confusion. He was still sick with grief, but necessity seemed to have
steadied him. He clutched his rifle grimly as we took up positions
behind rock masses at the edge of the landing field.


                                  III

We waited silently. The asteroid turned on its axis. The brief night
came. Then we saw the rockets approaching--flaming in on shreds of
blue-white rocket fire. As the two ships slowed for a landing, the
three of us discharged a volley.

Our atomic bullets burst on impact, dazzling in the dark. The
concussion was terrific.

"Got one!" I heard Pa Mavrocordatus shout after a moment, his voice
thin through the ringing in my ears. My dazzled eyes saw one ship lying
on its side on the landing field, its meteor armor unpunctured by our
small missiles, but with its landing rockets damaged. The other ship
had grounded itself perfectly.

We were ready to fire again, when the paralytic waves swept over us.
I saw Geedeh half rise, doubling backward in a rigid spasm, his rifle
flying wide.

Then I knew no more, until I heard Norman Haynes speaking to us. We
were bound firmly, and it was daylight again, and our captor and his
score of henchmen were smirking.

"I'm just trying to figure out how to make your deaths seem as
accidental as possible," Haynes said, looking at me. "A couple of men
of mine seem to have bungled a little business of bacteria. Maybe
they blabbed before you fellows killed them. Now, of course, I can't
take any chances. Too bad your reconditioned asteroid has to appear a
failure for a while. But I can't let my taking over seem too obvious.
Have to wait a while. I may be able to start up something here later,
when people sort of forget."

"What have you done with Irene?" I stormed blackly.

Haynes' look was quizzical. "Why ask me?" he answered. "She probably
ran off with one of your roustabouts. Or else they decided that she'd
be nice company to have around, and made her go along."

He laughed cynically. Maybe he was telling the truth about not knowing
where Irene was. But if this was true, it didn't make me feel much
better. If some of his gang, who'd been working with us, had kidnapped
her, there was no telling how badly she'd fare.

My fears showed on my face, and Norman Haynes seemed to enjoy them,
though he was nervous, dangerously so. It was getting daylight again,
now. He kept glancing at the sky, twiddling his soft hands. He didn't
like physical danger.

"Your gravity generator seems to be the answer to my prayers, Wallace,"
he informed me. "At full force it'll develop at least fifty Earth
gravities, before breaking down and melting itself. We've inspected it.
Power like that'll destroy all of you. It will look like an accident--a
breakdown of the machinery."

Though Pa Mavrocordatus kept cursing Haynes continuously, and Geedeh
kept calling him names that no Earthman could have translated into our
less vitriolic English, our captor paid them no attention. He kept
directing his threats at me. That was how I knew he was still thinking
of the time in his office at Enterprize, when I'd called him by his
true colors. He still held that grudge, and he meant to pay me back
with fifty gravities. Which means that every pound of Earth-weight
would be increased to fifty pounds! In a grip like that a man as big as
me would weigh a good four tons!

That meant a heart stopped by the load of the blood it tried to pump,
and tissues crushed by their own weight! Like being on the surface of
some dead star of medium dimensions, where gravity is terrific!

       *       *       *       *       *

At Haynes' order, six of his twenty henchmen picked up Geedeh and Pa
and me. The whole bunch was an ugly looking lot, the scum of the space
ports. Some of these men were commanded to stay on the surface of the
planetoid, while we were carried to the elevator shed. In the cage we
descended at dizzying speed to that vault at the center of 487 where
the gravity machinery was housed in its crystal shell. At that depth,
under the load of the column of air above, the atmospheric pressure was
very high. One could not breathe comfortably in that stuffy medium.

"Courage!" Geedeh gasped to Pa Mavrocordatus and me, while his great
eyes kept roving around, looking for some chance that wasn't there.

Haynes began to examine the machinery. He was smirking again. "Simple
to do!" he said to his companions. "Set the robot control for gradually
increasing power, so that we'll have time to get away. Break the manual
controls, so that no readjustments can be made. You can cut our friends
loose now, Zinder, so there won't be any ropes to show this was a
put-up job. But keep your blasters on these men--all of you!"

This was the end, all right. I was sure of it. I'd die without even
knowing what had happened to Irene. Irene, whom I knew now that I
loved....

We'd been freed of our bonds when the surface phone rang. The lookout
party, whom Haynes had left above, was calling. Our captor snapped on
the switch of the speaker. A voice boomed in that busy cavern of metal
giants, green light, and glinting crystal:

"Listen, Chief! There's a bunch of specks to the right of the sun.
They're getting bigger fast. Must be a flock of space ships. Couldn't
be any of yours. What'll we do?"

I saw Haynes' weak features go sallow. Briefly my spirits rose. I
couldn't imagine whom those ships could belong to. But they must be
rescuers of some kind. They were coming to stop Norman Haynes' madness.

But Haynes was clever, as he quickly proved. "Friends of Wallace here,
I suppose. Maybe even Space Patrol boats," he said over his phone to
the lookout party. "You'll all have to take a discomfort for a while.
We'll use gravity on them, too! They'll never land successfully."

Pa Mavrocordatus looked at me and Geedeh. "What's he mean--use gravity?"

Geedeh was a bit quicker than I in giving the obvious answer. "Just
as with us," he said. "Increase the output of the gravity generator
here to a certain degree. From space, the increase will be practically
unnoticeable. The rockets will try to land--but without taking into
consideration the multiplied attractive force, they will crash!"

"Many birds with one stone!" Haynes chuckled gleefully. "You will
have a short reprieve, friends, while I take care of these intruders,
whoever they are. I can't use too great a gravity on them at first. It
might warn them, if they notice that their ships are accelerating too
rapidly. They might as well be part of my 'accident', even if they do
happen to be police. The Space Patrol has accidents now and then, just
like anybody else!"

Haynes started to work the manual controls of the generator. The
area in which he and his several aides stood, was shielded against
the greater attraction, having been thus arranged by us for testing
purposes. The shrill hum of the machines grew louder.

I felt the weight of my prone body increase suffocatingly. The
heat increased too, as the great coils, gleaming in the glow of
illuminators, gradually absorbed more power. And I knew that, out in
space, those slender fingers of force were reaching and strengthening,
invisible and treacherous. Our unknown friends were doomed.

Not only were they doomed, but our whole idea was destined to failure.
The dream that Nick had died for. The vast progress that it meant.
Worlds out here--worlds with largely a self-sufficient production--real
colonization. Fair play. Norman Haynes would resist all that, because
progress would weaken his power here. He was master of the asteroids,
because he was master of their imports and exports. And unless he
could control the rejuvenated asteroids himself, they would never be.
With him directing, they would not represent a real improvement--only
another means of robbing from the colonists. And colonists weren't rich.

I could see those same thoughts, that gouged savagely into my own
brain, burning in Geedeh's cat eyes, where he sprawled near me. Being
a Martian, born to a lesser gravity than the terrestrial, he was
suffering more than I--physically. But perhaps my mental torture was
worse. Geedeh was Irene's friend, but I loved her. She was gone--lost
somewhere--maybe dead. That, for me, was the worst--much worse than
that crushing weight.

I couldn't let things remain the way they were! My seething fury and
need lashed me on, even in my helplessness. God--what could I do? I
tried to figure something out. Could I break the gravity machinery some
way? Impossible, now, certainly!

I tried to remember my high school physics. Principles that might be
used to give warning signals, and so forth. And just what that awful
gravity would do to things.

Close to me was the base of the domelike crystal shell that covered
the gravity generator. It wasn't a vital part, certainly, just stout
quartz. But it was the only thing I could reach. As I lay there on the
floor, I drew my foot back, doubling my knee. I stamped down against
the quartz with all my strength. The first blow cracked it. The second
drove my metal-shod boot-heel through with a crashing sound. A small
hole, eighteen inches long, was made in the barrier. The sounds of the
great machinery went on as before. The gravity kept slowly increasing.
Geedeh, suffering more, now, looked at me puzzledly. Pa Mavrocordatus
stared anxiously. And Norman Haynes at the surface phone laughed
unpleasantly.

"Cracking up, eh, Wallace?" he sneered. "I know who your would-be
helpers on those space ships are, now. I suppose I should be surprised
at their identities. They're calling to you. Want to listen? My men
above have locked this surface phone to our ship radio."

[Illustration: _"Cracking up, eh, Wallace?" Norman Haynes sneered._]

He turned up the volume of the reproducer.

Irene's voice was the first in the speaker. "Chet!" she was urging.
"Chet Wallace! Pa! Geedeh! Do you hear me? I left 487 of my own free
will. I couldn't waste time, going to the Space Patrol for help--they'd
want proof, and that would take a while to present. So--there was only
one person and I thought you'd mistrust him.... Why don't you answer?
Or have you left 487 too? I'm turning the mike over to somebody else,
now. I found him on Enterprize, just come from Earth, Mr. Arthur
Haynes...."


                                  IV

I gasped, listening to Irene. I didn't know what surprised and confused
me most--her being alive and safe, or what she'd done about old Art
Haynes. Could I trust old Art? I had no way of telling. Had Irene
told him about his nephew, or had she kept silent? Did he know he was
opposed to Norman Haynes, or did he think it was somebody else who had
sabotaged the project? Where would his loyalties be, if he found out?
It was a ticklish situation.

As soon as Irene's ragged, excited breathing died away in the speaker,
Norman Haynes took it upon himself to clarify his own stand, and my
uncertainties. He looked at Geedeh and Pa and me, tense and suffering
in the grip of the gravity, and tortured with doubt.

"Uncle Art is an old fool," he said. "So he thinks he'll come back to
the asteroids, and replace me in the business, does he? Well, he should
have died long ago, and now is as good a time as any! He might as well
be part of the accident, too, along with those space bums of yours.
Nobody'll ever know!"

It was tragic that old Art couldn't have heard that. But his nephew
wasn't broadcasting. He was just listening quietly. And now his uncle's
voice was coming through:

"We're blasting in to land, Wallace, if you're listening. There won't
be any more trouble, now. I'll see to that! We'll find out who's back
of this sabotage. We'll put an end to it!"

For me it was bitter, black irony--old Art proving himself our friend,
now! He didn't know his enemy. He was nearly ninety--a grim old
fighter, with real vision. Irene too, who meant everything to me. She
didn't know that with the intensified gravity those incoming ships
would be smashed and blazing!

My mind was growing a bit dim in the strangling pressure of
the artificial gravitation. Sweat was streaming from me in the
smothering heat that added to the oppressiveness of the heavy air. Pa
Mavrocordatus was groaning the name of his daughter. Geedeh's great
eyes were fixed on me in helpless suffering.

Through the shrill sounds of the engines I listened for more words
from Irene and old Art. But none came. They must know their doom by
now. They must be fighting savagely and hopelessly to get away. Still
some distance from 487, they were already caught, deep in the web of
invisible force.

After some moments, I heard a distant crash, a roll of sound. What was
it? A huge rocket, hitting the jagged crags above, at meteoric speed?
Crumpling, destroying itself and those inside it? I thought my heart
would burst with the added weight of my anxiety.

The first crash was only the beginning. Others followed in quick
succession--inexorably. And there was a faint, far-off roar, coming
down from ten miles above.

And that roar was the roar of titanic rain. Of floods of water coming
down this shaft, where the gravity machine was! All the countless tons
of water that we'd baked from ancient rocks, and which had been mostly
suspended as vapor in our synthetic atmosphere, was condensing now,
coming down in torrents!

       *       *       *       *       *

Norman Haynes kept grinning satanically, while he and his aides
attended to the gravity machine. Triumph showed in his eyes. But
presently he began to look puzzled, as that soughing roar that
accompanied the crashing din, increased. It was a little early for the
space ships to be smashing up, anyway.

I could feel a grim smile coming over my lips, against my will. Had my
guesses and hopes, which had seemed so unsubstantial, been correct?
Norman Haynes was glancing doubtfully at the reproducer. I could see
that he was wondering why his surface watchers didn't communicate any
more--and tell him what was happening up there on the crust of 487.

I knew the answers, now! Geedeh did, too. The excitement of knowledge
was in his withered, pain-wracked face. Those distant crashes were not
what I'd feared they might be, but part of what I'd hoped for. They
were gigantic thunder-claps--the noise of terrific lightning bolts!
Norman Haynes had made a simple oversight in his plan to destroy those
incoming space craft. There was a fearsome electrical storm going on
above--one of inconceivable proportions--utterly beyond the Earthly!
Doubtless all of Norman Haynes' surface watchers, up above, had been
killed by that sudden deluge of electricity! The multiplied gravitation
up there, had pinned them down, so that they could neither escape, nor
warn their chief!

Before Norman Haynes understood what was happening, foam-flecked muddy
water was at the door of the machinery room, rushing and gurgling past
the threshold! He and his helpers stared at it stupidly, and I laughed
at them.

"You didn't realize it, did you, Haynes?" I grunted. "You didn't
realize that increased gravity would increase the weight of the
atmosphere, as well as of everything else! And increased weight of
the air, means increased atmospheric pressure, too, pushing molecules
together, creating greater density. And what happens? Go back to your
high school physics, Haynes! It's like when you store air in the tank
of a compressor pump. The moisture in it liquifies. And in the case
of an atmosphere as big as 487 has now, static electricity would be
suddenly and violently condensed, besides."

Norman Haynes stared at me, stunned with consternation. But his
recovery was fairly prompt. His sudden sneer had a rattish desperation.
"Hell," he said. "Just a thunder storm. A lot of rain. What of it? The
gravity machine still works. The ships will still be destroyed."

I knew that that was true--unless what I'd planned happened. Those
rockets, manned by our old construction crew, and Irene, and old Art
Haynes, had been too close to asteroid 487 for the last couple of
minutes, to effect an escape, even if the sudden dark clouds had warned
them that something dangerous was afoot.

"Watch this--Haynes," Geedeh panted, and it was hard for the acting
head of the Haynes Shipping Company to guess what the little Martian
meant, at first.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the pull of that terrific gravity, the water was coming into that
room like an avalanche. Geedeh and Pa and I were floundering in it
feebly, held to the floor by that awful weight. I was sure we'd drown.
But as we coughed and sputtered, the flood found its way through the
hole I'd kicked, low down in the side of the crystal dome that covered
that gigantic machinery. There was a flash of electrical flame, as the
water interfered with the functioning of the apparatus.

It was pandemonium, then. Every man for himself. Geedeh, the scientist,
and I, who, under the force of grim need, had somehow contrived to plan
this finale, had the advantage of knowledge. We'd figured out a little
of what to do.

The gravity winked off suddenly--reaching the low of practically
nothing, here at the center of this tiny world, whose normal
attraction, even at the surface, was very small. We struggled to our
feet, in a muddy swirl that was now a yard in depth. But before we
could take advantage of our sudden lightness, and leap clear, the
gravity machines gave a last gasp of power, and we were pulled down
again, smothering. Then, with a grating roar, the apparatus stopped.
The bedlam ceased, except for a low whine of expanding atmosphere, and
screams from Haynes and his men.

Presently, I felt all hell stabbing through me. My ears rang as
with the after effects of some colossal explosion. My whole body
ached. I clutched at Geedeh, who seemed on the point of collapse. Pa
Mavrocordatus managed to help me....

But strained by gravity vastly stronger than that of Mars, and now
facing a circumstance even more dangerous, tough little Geedeh still
had his wits, fortunately for us all. He pointed to an airtight crystal
cage at one edge of the chamber. The cage was necessary in routine
testing of the machinery here, which called for variations in the
output of the gravity generators, and consequent great variations in
air pressure.

"Inside the cage--all of us!" Geedeh squeaked. "Quickly! Bends!..."

Do you know what the air pressure is, at the bottom of a ten-mile
shaft, even at normal Earth gravity? Yeah, something pretty high! Then
you can imagine what it had just been like, here, at six or seven
gravities! But when the generators had quit entirely, there had been
that sudden loss of weight in the air, sudden expansion, thinning, loss
of pressure!

The three of us got inside the cage, and sealed the door. I spun
valves. There was a hiss of entering atmosphere, and the pressure rose
again, far above the norm of sea-level, on Earth. I felt better at
once, but I knew it had been a close call.

We looked out at Norman Haynes and his henchmen. They weren't drowning,
now. Tottering, they stood with their heads well above the flood. It
was something else that was killing them. Not suffocation, either.
Their faces were bloated and congested in the glow of illuminators.
Their bodies seemed to swell.

Norman Haynes raised his blast tube, as did several of the others,
trying to fire at the crystal shelter where we had taken refuge. Norman
Haynes must have known his failure, then. Why had it happened. How we
had won. It may be that he even realized some justice in his hideous
punishment. He had tried to obstruct progress and fair play.

The blast tube dropped from his fingers. He opened his mouth to shriek
in his agony. But dark blood gushed forth, and, with his henchmen, he
toppled back into the water.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Bends!" Geedeh said again. "Haynes had a worse case of bends than any
deep-sea diver ever experienced."

The flood had almost stopped, now, outside the cage. We waited.
Vengeance was complete. And it wasn't quite as satisfying as I might
once have thought.

Presently they were with us. Irene. And old Art--proving that the
Haynes name was still great, even though one who bore it had soiled it
some. We emerged from our sealed cage, after the pressure around us was
gradually lowered to normal.

"I didn't think it was Norman who was guilty," old Art breathed sadly
when he spoke to us. "I knew he was high-handed, but I didn't realize
it was as bad as it was. I guess Norman got what he deserved," he
finished, and there were tears in his heavy voice.

We went to the surface in the elevator. We needed space suits again,
up there, with the air as expanded as it was. A lot of the atmosphere
was leaking away from 487, being held down only by the tiny natural
gravity. But there was nothing that couldn't be repaired and replaced.

"We must have pumps rigged to draw the water out of the vault, so that
we can dry and repair the gravity machinery, and start it again,"
Geedeh stated.

We started again, almost as we had done at the first, for quite a
bit of the air and water had been whisked into space. We lived in
space-suits for days, rebuilding and repairing the damaged machinery.
Then with the aid of Art Haynes, and with extended credit now that our
plans were made fully known and approved, we imported machinery to pump
the water from the vault.

We hired specialists to come in, each of them with a trained crew of
men to do the work that our old crews lacked the technical skill to do.
Slowly, our planet of hope grew again, and there were bulletins sent
through the asteroid belt that workers were wanted again on Paradise
Asteroid.

The specialists left, replaced by the crews that had worked on the
asteroid before. With unlimited credit, our great freighting ships
piled materials in regular formation, and the returning crews set their
ships down on the landing fields, the men pouring eagerly forth, ready
to set up the buildings that would be the nucleus of another Earth in
space.

With our old crews returned, it took about a hundred hours to
accomplish this. Asteroid 487 was almost the same as before the final
trouble with Norman Haynes, now, except that the air was a little
thinner. But that could be quickly taken care of. Pa Mavrocordatus
was working with his vineyards and trees, and his tomato and cabbage
patches, again. The big trouble was all finished, now. The dream was
coming true. A little Earth, fresh and green, for tired miners of the
Path of Minor Planets. Space madness could never be so common now. And
cheap, fresh products would be theirs.


                                   V

Irene and I walked in the warm night. The crews were whooping it up
in the lighted barracks. Somebody was playing a harmonica. The stars
were brilliant, and there were a thousand things to think of. How
we'd all struggled. How Nick Mavrocordatus, had dreamed and worked
and died. How once the asteroids had been a planet, with almost human
inhabitants, dreaming, planning, struggling, too. Their rock carvings
were everywhere.

"It's the beginning, Chet," Irene whispered. "Asteroid 487 is the
first. But there'll be others--other small, beautiful, living planets.
There's a lot of work to be done. And when it's all finished that will
be almost unfortunate--too tame."

I knew what she meant. She was pioneer stuff, just as all of us were.
The greatness of life was in its battles. On and on, to vaster and
vaster heights. That was what had driven us into the interplanetary
void in the first place.

I kissed her. "Don't worry, Honey," I said. "There's no end to it. No
point of final stagnation. It goes on and on. There'll always be a
frontier--something bigger to reach and conquer...."

And we looked up in awe toward the infinite stars.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Space Oasis, by Raymond Z. Gallun

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPACE OASIS ***

***** This file should be named 62186.txt or 62186.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/1/8/62186/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
