The Project Gutenberg EBook of Prison Planet, by Bob Tucker

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Prison Planet

Author: Bob Tucker

Release Date: May 23, 2020 [EBook #62212]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRISON PLANET ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             PRISON PLANET

                             By BOB TUCKER

             To remain on Mars meant death from agonizing
                 space-sickness, but Earth-surgery lay
                days of flight away. And there was only
               a surface rocket in which to escape--with
                a traitorous Ganymedean for its pilot.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Listen, Rat!" Roberds said, "what _I_ say goes around here. It doesn't
happen to be any of your business. I'm still in possession of my wits,
and I know Peterson can't handle that ship. Furthermore Gladney will
be in it too, right along side of that sick girl in there! And Rat,
get this: _I'm_ going to pilot that ship. Understand? Consulate or
no Consulate, job or no job, I'm wheeling that crate to Earth because
this is an emergency. And the emergency happens to be bigger than my
position, to me at any rate." His tone dropped to a deadly softness.
"Now will you kindly remove your stinking carcass from this office?"

Unheeding, Rat swung his eyes around in the gloom and discovered the
woman, a nurse in uniform. He blinked at her and she returned the look,
wavering. She bit her lip and determination flowed back. She met the
stare of his boring, off-colored eyes. Rat grinned suddenly. Nurse Gray
almost smiled back, stopped before the others could see it.

"Won't go!" The Centaurian resumed his fight. "You not go, lose job,
black-listed. Never get another. Look at me. I know." He retreated
a precious step to escape a rolled up fist. "Little ship carry four
nice. Rip out lockers and bunks. Swing hammocks. Put fuel in water
tanks. Live on concentrates. Earth hospital fix bellyache afterwards,
allright. I pilot ship. Yes?"

"No!" Roberds screamed.

Almost in answer, a moan issued from a small side room. The men in the
office froze as Nurse Gray ran across the room. She disappeared through
the narrow door.

"Peterson," the field manager ordered, "come over here and help me
throw this rat out...." He went for Rat. Peterson swung up out of his
chair with balled fist. The outlander backed rapidly.

"No need, no need, no need!" he said quickly. "I go." Still backing, he
blindly kicked at the door and stepped into the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the door slammed shut Roberds locked it. Peterson slumped in the
chair.

"Do you mean that, Chief? About taking the ship yourself?"

"True enough." Roberds cast an anxious glance at the partly closed
door, lowered his voice. "It'll cost me my job, but that girl in there
has to be taken to a hospital quickly! And it's her luck to be landed
on a planet that doesn't boast even one! So it's Earth ... or she
dies. I'd feel a lot better too if we could get Gladney to a hospital,
I'm not too confident of that patching job." He pulled a pipe from a
jacket pocket. "So, might as well kill two birds with one stone ... and
that wasn't meant to be funny!"

Peterson said nothing, sat watching the door.

"Rat has the right idea," Roberds continued, "but I had already thought
of it. About the bunks and lockers. Greaseball has been out there all
night tearing them out. We just _might_ be able to hop by dawn ... and
hell of a long, grinding hop it will be!"

The nurse came out of the door.

"How is she?" Roberds asked.

"Sleeping," Gray whispered. "But sinking...."

"We can take off at dawn, I think." He filled the pipe and didn't look
at her. "You'll have to spend most of the trip in a hammock."

"I can take it." Suddenly she smiled, wanly. "I was with the Fleet. How
long will it take?"

"Eight days, in _that_ ship."

Roberds lit his pipe, and carefully hid his emotions. He knew Peterson
was harboring the same thoughts. Eight days in space, in a small ship
meant for two, and built for planetary surface flights. Eight days in
that untrustworthy crate, hurtling to save the lives of that girl and
Gladney.

"Who was that ... man? The one you put out?" Gray asked.

"We call him Rat," Roberds said.

She didn't ask why. She said: "Why couldn't he pilot the ship, I mean?
What is his record?"

Peterson opened his mouth.

"Shut up, Peterson!" the Chief snapped. "We don't talk about his record
around here, Miss Gray. It's not a pretty thing to tell."

"Stow it, Chief," said Peterson. "Miss Gray is no pantywaist." He
turned to the nurse. "Ever hear of the Sansan massacre?"

Patti Gray paled. "Yes," she whispered. "Was Rat in that?"

Roberds shook his head. "He didn't take part in it. But Rat was
attached to a very important office at the time, the outpost watch.
And when Mad Barry Sansan and his gang of thugs swooped down on the
Ganymedean colony, there was no warning. Our friend Rat was AWOL.

"As to who he is ... well, just one of those freaks from up around
Centauria somewhere. He's been hanging around all the fields and dumps
on Mars a long time, finally landed up here."

"But," protested Miss Gray, "I don't understand? I always thought that
leaving one's post under such circumstances meant execution."

The Chief Consul nodded. "It does, usually. But this was a freak case.
It would take hours to explain. However, I'll just sum it up in one
word: politics. Politics, with which Rat had no connection saved him."

The girl shook her head, more in sympathy than condemnation.

"Are you expecting the others in soon?" she asked. "It wouldn't be
right to leave Peterson."

"They will be in, in a day or two. Peterson will beat it over to Base
station for repairs, and to notify Earth we're coming. He'll be all
right."

Abruptly she stood up. "Goodnight gentlemen. Call me if I'm needed."

Roberds nodded acknowledgement. The door to the side room closed behind
her. Peterson hauled his chair over to the desk. He sniffed the air.

"Damned rat!" he whispered harshly. "They ought to make a law forcing
him to wear dark glasses!"

Roberds smiled wearily. "His eyes do get a man, don't they?"

"I'd like to burn 'em out!" Peterson snarled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rat helped Greaseball fill the water tanks to capacity with fuel,
checked the concentrated rations and grunted.

Greaseball looked over the interior and chuckled. "The boss said strip
her, and strip her I did. All right, Rat, outside." He followed the
Centaurian out, and pulled the ladder away from the lip of the lock.
The two walked across the strip of sandy soil to the office building.
On tiptoes, Greaseball poked his head through the door panel. "All set."

Roberds nodded at him. "Stick with it!" and jerked a thumb at Rat
outside. Grease nodded understanding.

"Okay, Rat, you can go to bed now." He dropped the ladder against the
wall and sat on it. "Good night." He watched Rat walk slowly away.

Swinging down the path towards his own rambling shack, Rat caught a
sibilant whisper. Pausing, undecided, he heard it again.

"Here ... can you see me?" A white clad arm waved in the gloom. Rat
regarded the arm in the window. Another impatient gesture, and he
stepped to the sill.

"Yes?"--in the softest of whispers. The voices of the men in droning
conversation drifted in. "What you want?"

Nothing but silence for a few hanging seconds, and then: "Can you pilot
that ship?" Her voice was shaky.

He didn't answer, stared at her confused. He felt her fear as clearly
as he detected it in her words.

"Well, _can_ you?" she demanded.

"Damn yes!" he stated simply. "It now necessary?"

"Very! She is becoming worse. I'm afraid to wait until daylight.
And ... well, we want _you_ to pilot it! She refuses to risk
Mr. Roberds' job. She favors you."

Rat stepped back, astonished. "She?"

Nurse Gray moved from the window and Rat saw the second form in the
room, a slight, quiet figure on a small cot. "My patient," Nurse Gray
explained. "She overheard our conversation awhile ago. Quick, please,
can you?"

Rat looked at her and then at the girl on the cot. He vanished from the
window. Almost immediately, he was back again.

"When?" he whispered.

"As soon as possible. Yes. Do you know...?" but he had gone again.
Nurse Gray found herself addressing blackness. On the point of turning,
she saw him back again.

"Blankets," he instructed. "Wrap in blankets. Cold--hot too. Wrap
good!" And he was gone again. Gray blinked away the illusion he
disappeared upwards.

She ran over to the girl. "Judith, if you want to back down, now is the
time. He'll be back in a moment."

"No!" Judith moaned. "No!" Gray smiled in the darkness and began
wrapping the blankets around her. A light tapping at the window
announced the return of Rat. The nurse pushed open the window wide, saw
him out there with arms upstretched.

"Grit your teeth and hold on! Here we go." She picked up the blanketed
girl in both arms and walked to the window. Rat took the girl easily as
she was swung out, the blackness hid them both. But he appeared again
instantly.

"Better lock window," he cautioned. "Stall, if Boss call. Back
soon...." and he was gone.

To Nurse Gray the fifteen minute wait seemed like hours, impatient
agonizing hours of tight-lipped anxiety.

       *       *       *       *       *

Feet first, she swung through the window, clutching a small bag in her
hands. She never touched ground. Rat whispered "Hold tight!" in her
ear and the wind was abruptly yanked from her! The ground fell away
in a dizzy rush, unseen but felt, in the night! Her feet scraped on
some projection, and she felt herself being lifted still higher. Wind
returned to her throat, and she breathed again.

"I'm sorry," she managed to get out, gaspingly. "I wasn't expecting
that. I had forgotten you--"

"--had wings," he finished and chuckled. "So likewise Greaseball." The
pale office lights dropped away as they sped over the field. On the far
horizon, a tinge of dawn crept along the uneven terrain.

"Oh, the bag!" she gasped. "I've dropped it."

He chuckled again. "Have got. You scare, I catch."

She didn't see the ship because of the wind in her eyes, but without
warning she plummeted down and her feet jarred on the lip of the lock.
"Inside. No noise, no light. Easy." But in spite of his warning she
tripped in the darkness. He helped her from the floor and guided her to
the hammocks.

"Judith?" she asked.

"Here. Beside you, trussed up so tight I can hardly breathe."

"No talk!" Rat insisted. "Much hush-hush needed. Other girl shipshape.
You make likewise." Forcibly he shoved her into a hammock. "Wrap up
tight. Straps tight. When we go, we go fast. Bang!" And he left her.

"Hey! Where are you going now?"

"To get Gladney. He sick too. Hush hush!" His voice floated back.

"Where has he gone?" Judith called.

"Back for another man. Remember the two miners who found us when we
crashed? The burly one fell off a rock-bank as they were bringing us
in. Stove in his ribs pretty badly. The other has a broken arm ...
happened once while you were out. They wouldn't let me say anything for
fear of worrying you."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl did not answer then and a hushed expectancy fell over the
ship. Somewhere aft a small motor was running. Wind whistled past the
open lock.

"I've caused plenty of trouble haven't I?" she asked aloud, finally.
"This was certainly a fool stunt, and I'm guilty of a lot of fool
stunts! I just didn't realize until now the _why_ of that law."

"Don't talk so much," the nurse admonished. "A lot of people have found
out the _why_ of that law the hard way, just as you are doing, and
lived to remember it. Until hospitals are built on this forlorn world,
humans like you who haven't been properly conditioned will have to stay
right at home."

"How about these men that live and work here?"

"They never get here until they've been through the mill first.
Adenoids, appendix', all the extra parts they can get along without."

"Well," Judith said. "I've certainly learned my lesson!"

Gray didn't answer, but from out of the darkness surrounding her came a
sound remarkably resembling a snort.

"Gray?" Judith asked fearfully.

"Yes?"

"Hasn't the pilot been gone an awfully long time?"

Rat himself provided the answer by alighting at the lip with a jar that
shook the ship. He was breathing heavily and lugging something in his
arms. The burden groaned.

"Gladney!" Nurse Gray exclaimed.

"I got." Rat confirmed. "Yes, Gladney. Damn heavy, Gladney."

"But how?" she demanded. "What of Roberds and Peterson?"

"Trick," he sniggered. "I burn down my shack. Boss run out. I run in.
Very simple." He packed Gladney into the remaining hammock and snapped
buckles.

"And Peterson?" she prompted.

"Oh yes. Peterson. So sorry about Peterson. Had to fan him."

"_Fan_ him? I don't understand."

"Fan. With chair. Everything all right. I apologized." Rat finished up
and was walking back to the lock. They heard a slight rustling of wings
as he padded away.

He was back instantly, duplicating his feat of a short time ago.
Cursing shouts were slung on the night air, and the deadly spang of
bullets bounced on the hull! Some entered the lock. The Centaurian
snapped it shut. Chunks of lead continued to pound the ship. Rat leaped
for the pilot's chair, heavily, a wing drooping.

"You've been hurt!" Gray cried. A small panel light outlined his
features. She tried to struggle up.

"Lie still! We go. Boss get wise." With lightning fingers he flicked
several switches on the panel, turned to her. "Hold belly. Zoom!"

Gray folded her hands across her stomach and closed her eyes.

Rat unlocked the master level and shoved!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Whew!" Nurse Gray came back to throbbing awareness, the all too
familiar feeling of a misplaced stomach attempting to force its
crowded way into her boots plaguing her. Rockets roared in the rear.
She loosened a few straps and twisted over. Judith was still out, her
face tensed in pain. Gray bit her lip and twisted the other way. The
Centaurian was grinning at her.

"Do you always leave in a hurry?" she demanded, and instantly wished
she hadn't said it. He gave no outward sign.

"Long-time sleep," he announced. "Four, five hours maybe." The chest
strap was lying loose at his side.

"That long!" she was incredulous. "I'm never out more than three
hours!" Unloosening more straps, she sat up, glanced at the control
panel.

"Not taking time," he stated simply and pointed to a dial. Gray shook
her head and looked at the others.

"That isn't doing either of them any good!"

Rat nodded unhappily. "What's her matter--?" pointing.

"Appendix. Something about this atmosphere sends it haywire. The thing
itself isn't diseased, but it starts manufacturing poison. Patient dies
in a week unless it is taken out."

"Don't know it," he said briefly.

"Do you mean to say you don't have an appendix?" she demanded.

Rat folded his arms and considered this. "Don't know. Maybe yes, maybe
no. Where's it hurt?"

Gray pointed out the location. The Centaurian considered this further
and drifted into long contemplation. Watching him, Gray remembered his
eyes that night ... only _last_ night ... in the office. Peterson had
refused to meet them. After awhile Rat came out of it.

"No," he waved. "No appendix. Never nowhere appendix."

"Then Mother Nature has finally woke up!" she exclaimed. "But why do
Centaurians rate it exclusively?"

Rat ignored this and asked one of her. "What you and her doing up
there?" He pointed back and up, to where Mars obliterated the stars.

"You might call it a pleasure jaunt. She's only seventeen. We came over
in a cruiser belonging to her father; it was rather large and easy to
handle. But the cruise ended when she lost control of the ship because
of an attack of space-appendicitis. The rest you know."

"So you?"

"So I'm a combination nurse, governess, guard and what have you. Or
will be until we get back. After this, I'll probably be looking for
work." She shivered.

"Cold?" he inquired concernedly.

"On the contrary, I'm too warm." She started to remove the blanket. Rat
threw up a hand to stop her.

"Leave on! Hot out here."

"But I'm too hot now. I want to take it off!"

"No. Leave on. Wool blanket. Keep in body heat, yes. Keep out cold,
yes. Keep in, keep out, likewise. See?"

Gray stared at him. "I never thought of it that way before. Why of
course! If it protects from one temperature, it will protect from
another. Isn't it silly of me not to know that?" Heat pressing on her
face accented the fact.

"What is your name?" she asked. "Your real one I mean."

He grinned. "Big. You couldn't say it. Sound like Christmas and
bottlenose together real fast. Just say Rat. Everybody does." His eyes
swept the panel and flashed back to her. "Your name Gray. Have a front
name?"

"Patti."

"Pretty, Patti."

"No, just Patti. Say, what's the matter with the cooling system?"

"Damn punk," he said. "This crate for surface work. No space. Cooling
system groan, damn punk. Won't keep cool here."

"And ..." she followed up, "it will get warmer as we go out?"

Rat turned back to his board in a brown study and carefully ignored
her. Gray grasped an inkling of what the coming week could bring.

"But how about water?" she demanded next. "Is there enough?"

He faced about. "For her--" nodding to Judith, "and him--" to Gladney,
"yes. Sparingly. Four hours every time, maybe." Back to Gray. "You,
me ... twice a day. Too bad." His eyes drifted aft to the tank of
water. She followed. "One tank water. All the rest fuel. Too bad, too
bad. We get thirsty I think."

       *       *       *       *       *

They did get thirsty, soon. A damnable hot thirst accented by
the knowledge that water was precious, a thirst increased by a
dried-up-in-the-mouth sensation. Their first drink was strangely
bitter; tragically disappointing. Patti Gray suddenly swung upright in
the hammock and kicked her legs. She massaged her throat with a nervous
hand, wiped damp hair from about her face.

"I have to have a drink."

Rat stared at her without answer.

"I said, I have to have a drink!"

"Heard you."

"Well...?"

"Well, nothing. Stall. Keep water longer."

She swung a vicious boot and missed by inches. Rat grinned, and made
his way aft, hand over hand. He treaded cautiously along the deck. "Do
like this," he called over his shoulder. "Gravity punk too. Back and
under, gravity." He waited until she joined him at the water tap.

They stood there glaring idiotically at each other.

She burst out laughing. "They even threw the drinking cups out!" Rat
inched the handle grudgingly and she applied lips to the faucet.

"Faugh!" Gray sprang back, forgot herself and lost her balance, sat
down on the deck and spat out the water. "It's hot! It tastes like hell
and it's hot! It must be fuel!"

Rat applied his lips to the tap and sampled. Coming up with a mouthful
he swished it around on his tongue like mouthwash. Abruptly he
contrived a facial contortion between a grin and a grimace, and let
some of the water trickle from the edges of his mouth. He swallowed and
it cost him something.

"No. I mean yes, I think. Water, no doubt. Yes. Fuel out, water in.
Swish-swush. Dammit, Greaseball forget to wash tank!"

"But what makes it so hot?" She worked her mouth to dry-rinse the taste
of the fuel.

"Ship get hot. Water on sun side. H-m-m-m-m-m-m."

"H-m-m-m-m-m-m-m what?"

"Flip-flop." He could talk with his hands as well. "Hot side over like
pancake." Rat hobbled over to the board and sat down. An experimental
flick on a lever produced nothing. Another flick, this time followed by
a quivering jar. He contemplated the panel board while fastening his
belt.

"H-m-m-m-m-m-m," the lower lip protruded.

Gray protested. "Oh, stop humming and do something! That wa--" the
word was queerly torn from her throat, and a scream magically filled
the vacancy. Nurse Gray sat up and rubbed a painful spot that had
suddenly appeared on her arm. She found her nose bleeding and another
new, swelling bruise on the side of her head. Around her the place was
empty. Bare.

No, not quite. A wispy something was hanging just out of sight in
the corner of the eye; the water tap was now moulded _upward_, beads
glistening on its handle. The wispy thing caught her attention again
and she looked up.

Two people, tightly wrapped and bound in hammocks, were staring down at
her, amazed, swinging on their stomachs. Craning further, she saw Rat.
He was hanging upside down in the chair, grinning at her in reverse.

"Flip-flop," he laconically explained.

"For cripes sakes, Jehosaphat!" Gladney groaned. "Turn me over on my
back! Do something!" Gray stood on tiptoes and just could pivot the
hammocks on their rope-axis.

"And now, please, just _how_ do I get into mine?" she bit at Rat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Existence dragged. Paradoxically, time dropped away like a cloak as
the sense of individual hours and minutes vanished, and into its place
crept a slow-torturing substitute. As the ship revolved, monotonously,
first the ceiling and then the floor took on dullish, maddening
aspects, eyes ached continuously from staring at them time and again
without surcease. The steady, drumming rockets crashed into the mind
and the walls shrieked malevolently on the eyeballs. Dull, throbbing
sameness of the poorly filtered air, a growing taint in the nostrils.
Damp warm skin, reeking blankets. The taste of fuel in the mouth for
refreshment. Slowly mounting mental duress. And above all the drumming
of the rockets.

Once, a sudden, frightening change of pitch in the rockets and a wild,
sickening lurch. Meteor rain. Maddening, plunging swings to the far
right and left, made without warning. A torn lip as a sudden lurch
tears the faucet from her mouth. A shattered tooth.

"Sorry!" Rat whispered.

"Shut up and drive!" she cried.

"Patti ..." Judith called out, in pain.

Peace of mind followed peace of body into a forgotten limbo of lost
things, a slyly climbing madness directed at one another. Waspish
words uttered in pain, fatigue and temper. Fractiousness. A hot,
confined, stale hell. Sleep became a hollow mockery, as bad water
and concentrated tablets brought on stomach pains to plague them.
Consciousness punctured only by spasms of lethargy, shared to some
extent by the invalids. Above all, crawling lassitude and incalescent
tempers.

Rat watched the white, drawn face swing in the hammock beside him. And
his hands never faltered on the controls.

Never a slackening of the terrific pace; abnormal speed, gruelling
drive ... drive ... drive. Fear. Tantalizing fear made worse because
Rat couldn't understand. Smothered moaning that ate at his nerves.
Grim-faced, sleep-wracked, belted to the chair, driving!

"How many days? How many days!" Gray begged of him thousands of times
until the very repetition grated on her eardrums. "How many days?"
His only answer was an inhuman snarl, and the cruel blazing of those
inhuman eyes.

She fell face first to the floor. "I can't keep it up!" she cried. The
sound of her voice rolled along the hot steel deck. "I cant! I cant!"

A double handful of tepid water was thrown in her face. "Get up!" Rat
stood over her, face twisted, his body hunched. "Get up!" She stared at
him, dazed. He kicked her. "Get up!" The tepid water ran off her face
and far away she heard Judith calling.... She forced herself up. Rat
was back in the chair.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gladney unexpectedly exploded. He had been awake for a long time,
watching Rat at the board. Wrenching loose a chest strap he attempted
to sit up.

"Rat! Damn you Rat, listen to me! _When're you going to start braking_,
Rat?"

"I hear you." He turned on Gladney with dulled eyes. "Lie down. You
sick."

"I'll be damned if I'm going to lie here and let you drive us to Orion!
We must be near the half-way line! When are you going to start braking?"

"Not brake," Rat answered sullenly. "No, not brake."

"_Not brake?_" Gladney screamed and sat bolt upright. Nurse Gray jumped
for him. "Are you crazy, you skinny rat?" Gray secured a hold on his
shoulders and forced him down. "You gotta brake! Don't you understand
that? You have to, you vacuum-skull!" Gray was pleading with him to
shut-up like a good fellow. He appealed to her. "He's gotta brake! Make
him!"

"He has a good point there, Rat," she spoke up. "What about this
half-way line?"

He turned to her with a weary ghost of the old smile on his face. "We
passed line. Three days ago, maybe." A shrug of shoulders.

"Passed!" Gray and Gladney exclaimed in unison.

"You catch on quick," Rat nodded. "This six day, don't you know?"

Gladney sank back, exhausted. The nurse crept over to the pilot.
"Getting your figures mixed, aren't you?"

Rat shook his head and said nothing.

"But Roberds said eight days, and he--"

"--he on Mars. I here. Boss nuts, too sad. He drive, it be eight days.
Now only six." He cast a glance at Judith and found her eyes closed.
"Six days, no brake. No."

"I see your point, and appreciate it," Gray cut in. "But now what? This
deceleration business ... there is a whole lot I don't know, but some
things I do!"

Rat refused the expected answer. "Land tonight, I think. Never been to
Earth before. Somebody meet us, I think."

"You can bet your leather boots somebody will meet us!" Gladney cried.
Gray turned to him. "The Chief'll have the whole planet waiting for
_you_!" He laughed with real satisfaction. "Oh yes, Rat, they'll be
somebody waiting for us all right." And then he added: "If we land."

"Oh, we land." Rat confided, glad to share a secret.

"Yeah," Gladney grated. "But in how many little pieces?"

"I've never been to Earth before. Nice, I think." Patti Gray caught
something new in the tone and stared at him. Gladney must have noticed
it, too.

The Centaurian moved sideways and pointed. Gray placed her eyes in the
vacated position.

"Earth!" she shouted.

"Quite. Nice. Do me a favor?"

"Just name it!"

"Not drink long time. Some water?"

Gray nodded and went to the faucet. The drumming seemed remote, the
tension vanished. She was an uncommonly long time in returning, at last
she appeared beside him, outstretched hands dry.

"There isn't any left, Rat."

Rat batted his tired eyes expressively. "Tasted punk," he grinned at
her.

She sat down on the floor suddenly and buried her face.

"Rat," she said presently, "I want to ask you something, rather
personal? Your ... name. 'Rat'? Roberds told me something about your
record. But ... please tell me, Rat. You didn't know the attack was
coming, did you?"

He grinned again and waggled his head at her. "No. Who tell Rat?"
Suddenly he was deadly serious as he spoke to her. "Rat a.w.o.l., go
out to help sick man alone in desert. Rat leave post. Not time send
call through. Come back with man, find horrible thing happen."

"But why didn't you explain?"

He grinned again. "Who believe? Sick man die soon after."

Gladney sat up. He had heard the conversation between the two. "You're
right, Rat. No one would have believed you then, and no one will now.
You've been safe enough on Mars, but the police will nab you as soon as
you get out of the ship."

"They can't!" cried Patti Gray. "They can't hurt him after what he's
done now."

The Centaurian grinned in a cynical way.

"Police not get me, Gladney. Gladney's memory damn punk, I think. Earth
pretty nice place, maybe. But not for Rat."

Gladney stared at him for minutes. Then: "Say, I get it ... you're--"

"Shut up!" Rat cut him off sharply. "You talk too much." He cast a
glance at Nurse Gray and then threw a meaning look at Gladney.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gladney subsided. Patti Gray noted with dawning wonder that his face
had lost the loathing and anger he had previously held toward the
outlaw pilot.

"Look. Sea!" Rat said a few moments later. Gray was in her hammock. She
twisted over as he moved bony shoulders aside to let her see through
the vision port. A startlingly brief glimpse of glistening waters shot
past, reflecting a dancing moonpath. A continent whirled into place on
the plate. The skies were clear of other craft.

"Travelling fast!" she warned. "I hope you know what you're doing."
Another body of water shot past them beneath. "That must be the
Pacific. Where are you going to set down?"

"The ocean." Rat didn't turn his attention away from the plate.
"Gladney you got bad memory too much. That's why we passed half-way
line full speed! Sea water good brake, stop us hundred miles!"

Gladney flopped back. "May I be kicked to death! Of course! I've heard
of it being done by stunt pilots. But Rat, are you sure you can do it?
I mean, can you land us without killing us all?"

"Oh yes," but Rat was grimly serious. "I can all right, but...."

"... but what?"

"Ever see little boy skipping stones across water?" His hand shot out
and described a series of violent ricocheting motions. "Like that?
We land that way, I think. _Splat-splat!_ First splat knock us
all ... all ... what you say?"

"Knock us out?" Gladney supplied.

Rat shrugged. Gray caught his eyes.

"Goodnight, Rat," she smiled at him. "When I wake up, I want to see you
again. You won't be in jail for awhile, not until the hospital releases
you, and perhaps by that time...."

"All no bother, please. I liked you Patti Gray. But your memory pretty
punk too. Forget your Fleet training, I think. Yes! But Patti ..." he
stopped, helpless.

"Yes?"

"I'm sorry about something. I kicked you."

"Rat, please forget it. I won't forgive you for there is nothing to
forgive you for!" She smiled at him, winked once and closed her eyes.
"Goodnight everyone."

[Illustration: _The ocean rushed up with incredible speed._]

They felt the nose dip as Rat dropped toward the moonlit sea. The
ocean rushed up. The ship struck with titanic force, blasting through
the white-caps, metal crumpling from the monstrous dive. And then all
consciousness blacked out for those on board.

       *       *       *       *       *

Patti Gray awoke, pressed the button under her pillow for a nurse,
smiled about the clean hospital room.

Gladney was waiting to see her. He wheeled himself in and stopped the
chair beside her bed.

"Hello. Feel human again?"

"Do I?" She laughed. "Gladney, I'm going to stay right here the rest of
my life!"

"Yeah ... that's what I said yesterday. But today I'm itching to get
back up yonder." He dug a thumb at the sky.

"Is Judith all right?"

"Sure. She wants to see you. Frankly, Miss Gray," he lowered his voice,
"I expected that first 'splat' of Rat's would kill her."

Gray shivered. "I have a hazy memory of that landing. How did we do it?"

"Easy. A coast-guard cutter saw us and picked us up about ten miles
out."

"Gladney," she said quickly, "you've got to help me clear Rat. We've
got to ... why Gladney, you don't mean they got him...?"

"_They_ didn't get him. _Earth_ did. Don't you remember what he said
about Earth being a nice place for us? Centaurians can't endure Earth's
gravity and atmosphere; the Centaurian Embassy is very specially built,
and all Centaurians come to Earth in what are virtually fish bowls.

"Rat was beginning to die even as we dove for the water."

Patti Gray stared at him a moment in frozen horror, then buried her
face in the pillow.

"Some day, he will be remembered, Miss Gray," Gladney whispered. "Some
day, after all the bitterness over Ganymede is forgotten, they'll
remember _why_ Rat left his post, and they'll remember how he drove."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Prison Planet, by Bob Tucker

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRISON PLANET ***

***** This file should be named 62212.txt or 62212.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/2/1/62212/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
