The Project Gutenberg EBook of Trouble On Tycho, by Nelson S. Bond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Trouble On Tycho

Author: Nelson S. Bond

Release Date: May 28, 2020 [EBook #62260]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TROUBLE ON TYCHO ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           TROUBLE ON TYCHO

                           By NELSON S. BOND

             Isobar and his squeeze-pipes were the bane of
             the Moon Station's existence. But there came
            the day when his comrades found that the worth
            of a man lies sometimes in his nuisance value.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The audiophone buzzed thrice--one long, followed by two shorts--and
Isobar Jones pressed the stud activating its glowing scanner-disc.

"Hummm?" he said absent-mindedly.

The selenoplate glowed faintly, and the image of the Dome Commander
appeared.

"Report ready, Jones?"

"Almost," acknowledged Isobar gloomily. "It prob'ly ain't right,
though. How anybody can be expected to get _anything_ right on this
dagnabbed hunk o' green cheese--"

"Send it up," interrupted Colonel Eagan, "as soon as you can. Sparks is
making Terra contact now. That is all."

"That ain't all!" declared Isobar indignantly. "How about my bag--?"

It _was all_, so far as the D.C. was concerned. Isobar was talking
to himself. The plate dulled. Isobar said, "Nuts!" and returned to
his duties. He jotted neat ditto marks under the word "Clear" which,
six months ago, he had placed beneath the column headed: _Cond. of
Obs._ He noted the proper figures under the headings _Sun Spots_: _Max
Freq._--_Min. Freq._; then he sketched careful curves in blue and red
ink upon the Mercator projection of Earth which was his daily work
sheet.

This done, he drew a clean sheet of paper out of his desk drawer,
frowned thoughtfully at the tabulated results of his observations, and
began writing.

"_Weather forecast for Terra_," he wrote, his pen making scratching
sounds.

The audiophone rasped again. Isobar jabbed the stud and answered
without looking.

"O.Q.," he said wearily. "O.Q. I told you it would be ready in a couple
o' minutes. Keep your pants on!"

"I--er--I beg your pardon, Isobar?" queried a mild voice.

Isobar started. His sallow cheeks achieved a sickly salmon hue. He
blinked nervously.

"Oh, jumpin' jimminy!" he gulped. "_You_, Miss Sally! Golly--'scuse me!
I didn't realize--"

The Dome Commander's niece giggled.

"That's all right, Isobar. I just called to ask you about the weather
in Oceania Sector 4B next week. I've got a swimming date at Waikiki,
but I won't make the shuttle unless the weather's going to be nice."

"It is," promised Isobar. "It'll be swell all weekend, Miss Sally.
Fine sunshiny weather. You can go."

"That's wonderful. Thanks so much, Isobar."

"Don't mention it, ma'am," said Isobar, and returned to his work.

South America. Africa. Asia. Pan-Europa. Swiftly he outlined the
meteorological prospects for each sector. He enjoyed this part of his
job. As he wrote forecasts for each area, in his mind's eye he saw
himself enjoying such pastimes as each geographical division's terrain
rendered possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

If home is where the heart is, Horatio Jones--known better as "Isobar"
to his associates at the Experimental Dome on Luna--was a long, long
way from home. His lean, gangling frame was immured, and had been for
six tedious Earth months, beneath the _impervite_ hemisphere of Lunar
III--that frontier outpost which served as a rocket refueling station,
teleradio transmission point and meteorological base.

"Six solid months! Six sad, dreary months!" thought Isobar, "Locked up
in an airtight Dome like--like a goldfish in a glass bowl!" Sunlight?
Oh, sure! But filtered through ultraviolet wave-traps so it could not
burn, it left the skin pale and lustreless and clammy as the belly of a
toad. Fresh air? Pooh! Nothing but that everlasting sickening, scented,
reoxygenated stuff gushing from atmo-conditioning units.

Excitement? Adventure? The romance he had been led to expect when he
signed on for frontier service? Bah! Only a weary, monotonous, routine
existence.

"A pain!" declared Isobar Jones. "That's what it is; a pain in the
stummick. Not even allowed to--Yeah?"

It was Sparks, audioing from the Dome's transmission turret. He said,
"Hyah, Jonesy! How comes with the report?"

"Done," said Isobar. "I was just gettin' the sheets together for you."

"O.Q. But just bring _it_. Nothing else."

Isobar bridled.

"I don't know what you're talkin' about."

"Oh, no? Well, I'm talking about that squawk-filled doodlesack of
yours, sonny boy. Don't bring that bag-full of noise up here with you."

Isobar said defiantly, "It ain't a doodlesack. It's a bagpipe. And I
guess I can play it if I want to--"

"Not," said Sparks emphatically, "in _my_ cubby! I've got sensitive
eardrums. Well, stir your stumps! I've got to get the report rolling
quick today. Big doings up here."

"Yeah? What?"

"Well, it's Roberts and Brown--"

"What about 'em?"

"They've gone Outside to make foundation repairs."

"Lucky stiffs!" commented Isobar ruefully.

"Lucky, no. Stiffs, maybe--if they should meet any Grannies. Well,
scoot along. I'm on the ether in four point sixteen minutes."

"Be right up," promised Isobar, and, sheets in hand, he ambled from his
cloistered cell toward the central section of the Dome.

He didn't leave Sparks' turret after the sheets were delivered.
Instead, he hung around, fidgeting so obtrusively that Riley finally
turned to him in sheer exasperation.

"Sweet snakes of Saturn, Jonesy, what's the trouble? Bugs in your
britches?"

Isobar said, "H-huh? Oh, you mean--Oh, thanks, no! I just thought mebbe
you wouldn't mind if I--well--er--"

"I get it!" Sparks grinned. "Want to play peekaboo while the contact's
open, eh? Well, O.Q. Watch the birdie!"

He twisted dials, adjusted verniers, fingered a host of
incomprehensible keys. Current hummed and howled. Then a plate before
him cleared, and the voice of the Earth operator came in, enunciating
with painstaking clarity:

"Earth answering Luna. Earth answering Luna's call. Can you hear me,
Luna? Can you hear--?"

"I can not only hear you," snorted Riley, "I can see you and smell you,
as well. Stop hamming it, stupid! You're lousing up the earth!"

The now-visible face of the Earth radioman drew into a grimace of
displeasure.

"Oh, it's _you_? Funny man, eh? Funny man Riley?"

"Sure," said Riley agreeably. "I'm a scream. Four-alarm Riley,
the cosmic comedian--didn't you know? Flick on your dictacoder,
oyster-puss; here's the weather report." He read it. "'_Weather
forecast for Terra, week of May 15-21_--'"

"Ask him," whispered Isobar eagerly. "Sparks, don't forget to ask him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Riley motioned for silence, but nodded. He finished the weather report,
entered the Dome Commander's log upon the Home Office records, and
dictated a short entry from the Luna Biological Commission. Then:

"That is all," he concluded.

"O.Q.," verified the other radioman. Isobar writhed anxiously, prodded
Riley's shoulder.

"Ask him, Sparks! Go on ask him!"

"Oh, cut jets, will you?" snapped Sparks. The Terra operator looked
startled.

"How's that? I didn't say a word--"

"Don't be a dope," said Sparks, "you dope! I wasn't talking to you.
I'm entertaining a visitor, a refugee from a cuckoo clock. Look, do me
a favor, chum? Can you twist your mike around so it's pointing out a
window?"

"What? Why--why, yes, but--"

"Without buts," said Sparks grumpily. "Yours not to reason why; yours
but to do or don't. Will you do it?"

"Well, sure. But I don't understand--" The silver platter which had
mirrored the radioman's face clouded as the Earth operator twirled the
inconoscope. Walls and desks of an ordinary broadcasting office spun
briefly into view; then the plate reflected a glimpse of an Earthly
landscape. Soft blue sky warmed by an atmosphere-shielded sun ... green
trees firmly rooted in still-greener grass ... flowers ... birds ...
people....

"Enough?" asked Sparks.

Isobar Jones awakened from his trance, eyes dulling. Reluctantly he
nodded. Riley stared at him strangely, almost gently. To the other
radioman, "O.Q., pal," he said. "Cut!"

"Cut!" agreed the other. The plate blanked out.

"Thanks, Sparks," said Isobar.

"Nothing," shrugged Riley "_He twisted_ the mike; not me. But--how come
you always want to take a squint at Earth when the circuit's open,
Jonesy? Homesick?"

"Sort of," admitted Isobar guiltily.

"Well, hell, aren't we all? But we can't leave here for another six
months at least. Not till our tricks are up. I should think it'd only
make you feel worse to see Earth."

"It ain't Earth I'm homesick for," explained Isobar. "It's--well, it's
the things that go with it. I mean things like grass and flowers and
trees."

Sparks grinned; a mirthless, lopsided grin.

"We've got _them_ right here on Luna. Go look out the tower window,
Jonesy. The Dome's nestled smack in the middle of the prettiest,
greenest little valley you ever saw."

"I know," complained Isobar. "And that's what makes it even worse. All
that pretty, soft, green stuff Outside--and we ain't allowed to go out
in it. Sometimes I get so mad I'd like to--"

"To," interrupted a crisp voice, "what?"

Isobar spun, flushing; his eyes dropped before those of Dome Commander
Eagan. He squirmed.

"N-nothing, sir. I was only saying--"

"I heard you, Jones. And please let me hear no more of such talk, sir!
It is strictly forbidden for anyone to go Outside except in cases of
absolute necessity. Such labor as caused Patrolmen Brown and Roberts to
go, for example--"

"Any word from them yet, sir?" asked Sparks eagerly.

"Not yet. But we're expecting them to return at any minute now. Jones!
Where are _you_ going?"

"Why--why, just back to my quarters, sir."

"That's what I thought. And what did you plan to do there?"

Isobar said stubbornly, "Well, I sort of figured I'd amuse myself for a
while--"

"I thought that, too. And with _what_, pray, Jones?"

"With the only dratted thing," said Isobar, suddenly petulant, "that
gives me any fun around this dagnabbed place! With my bagpipe."

       *       *       *       *       *

Commander Eagan said, "You'd better find some new way of amusing
yourself, Jones. Have you read General Order 17?"

Isobar said, "I seen it. But if you think--"

"It says," stated Eagan deliberately, "'_In order that work or rest
periods of the Dome's staff may not be disturbed, it is hereby ordered
that the playing or practicing of all or any musical instruments must
be discontinued immediately. By order of the Dome Commander_,' That
means you, Jones!"

"But, dingbust it!" keened Isobar, "it don't disturb nobody for me to
play my bagpipes! I know these lunks around here don't appreciate good
music, so I always go in my office and lock the door after me--"

"But the Dome," pointed out Commander Eagan, "has an air-conditioning
system which can't be shut off. The ungodly moans of
your--er--so-called musical instrument can be heard through the entire
structure."

He suddenly seemed to gain stature.

"No, Jones, this order is final! You cannot disrupt our entire
organization for your own--er--amusement."

"But--" said Isobar.

"No!"

Isobar wriggled desperately. Life on Luna was sorry enough already.
If now they took from him the last remaining solace he had, the last
amusement which lightened his moments of freedom--

"Look, Commander!" he pleaded, "I tell you what I'll do. I won't bother
nobody. I'll go Outside and play it--"

"Outside!" Eagan stared at him incredulously. "Are you mad? How about
the Grannies?"

Isobar knew all about the Grannies. The only mobile form of life
found by space-questing man on Earth's satellite, their name was an
abbreviation of the descriptive one applied to them by the first Lunar
exployers: Granitebacks. This was no exaggeration; if anything, it was
an understatement. For the Grannies, though possessed of certain low
intelligence, had quickly proven themselves a deadly, unyielding and
implacable foe.

Worse yet, they were an enemy almost indestructible! No man had ever
yet brought to Earth laboratories the carcass of a Grannie; science
was completely baffled in its endeavors to explain the composition of
Graniteback physiology--but it was known, from bitter experience, that
the carapace or exoskeleton of the Grannies was formed of something
harder than steel, diamond, or battleplate! This flesh could be
penetrated by no weapon known to man; neither by steel nor flame,
by electronic nor ionic wave, nor by the lethal, newly discovered
atomo-needle dispenser.

All this Isobar knew about the Grannies. Yet:

"They ain't been any Grannies seen around the Dome," he said, "for
a 'coon's age. Anyhow, if I seen any comin', I could run right back
inside--"

"No!" said Commander Eagan flatly. "Absolutely, _no_! I have no time
for such nonsense. You know the orders--obey them! And now, gentlemen,
good afternoon!"

He left. Sparks turned to Isobar, grinning.

"Well," he said, "one man's fish--hey, Jonesy? Too bad you can't play
your doodlesack any more, but frankly, I'm just as glad. Of all the
awful screeching wails--"

But Isobar Jones, generally mild and gentle, was now in a perfect
fury. His pale eyes blazed, he stomped his foot on the floor, and from
his lips poured a stream of such angry invective that Riley looked
startled. Words that, to Isobar, were the utter dregs of violent
profanity.

"Oh, dagnab it!" fumed Isobar Jones. "Oh, tarnation and dingbust!
Oh--_fiddlesticks_!"


                                  II

"And so," chuckled Riley, "he left, bubbling like a kettle on a red-hot
oven. But, boy! was he ever mad! Just about ready to bust, he was."

Some minutes had passed since Isobar had left; Riley was talking to Dr.
Loesch, head of the Dome's Physics Research Division. The older man
nodded commiseratingly.

"It is funny, yes," he agreed, "but at the same time it is not
altogether amusing. I feel sorry for him. He is a very unhappy man, our
poor Isobar."

"Yeah, I know," said Riley, "but, hell, we all get a little bit
homesick now and then. He ought to learn to--"

"Excuse me, my boy," interrupted the aged physicist, his voice gentle,
"it is not mere homesickness that troubles our friend. It is something
deeper, much more vital and serious. It is what my people call:
_weltschmertz_. There is no accurate translation in English. It means
'world sickness,' or better, 'world weariness'--something like that but
intensified a thousandfold.

"It is a deeply-rooted mental condition, sometimes a dangerous frame
of mind. Under its grip, men do wild things. Hating the world on which
they find themselves, they rebel in curious ways. Suicide ... mad acts
of valor ... deeds of cunning or knavery...."

"You mean," demanded Sparks anxiously, "Isobar ain't got all his
buttons?"

"Not that exactly. He is perfectly sane. But he is in a dark morass
of despair. He may try _anything_ to retrieve his lost happiness, rid
his soul of its dark oppression. His world-sickness is like a crying
hunger--By the way, where is he now?"

"Below, I guess. In his quarters."

"Ah, good! Perhaps he is sleeping. Let us hope so. In slumber he will
find peace and forgetfulness."

But Dr. Loesch would have been far less sanguine had some power the
"giftie gi'en" him of watching Isobar Jones at that moment.

Isobar was not asleep. Far from it. Wide awake and very much astir, he
was acting in a singularly sinister role: that of a slinking, furtive
culprit.

Returning to his private cubicle after his conversation with Dome
Commander Eagan, he had stalked straightway to the cabinet wherein was
encased his precious set of bagpipes. These he had taken from their
pegs, gazed upon defiantly, and fondled with almost parental affection.

"So I can't play you, huh?" he muttered darkly. "It disturbs the peace
o' the dingfounded, dumblasted Dome staff, does it? Well, we'll _see_
about that!"

And tucking the bag under his arm, he had cautiously slipped from the
room, down little-used corridors, and now he stood before the huge
_impervite_ gates which were the entrance to the Dome and the doorway
to Outside.

On all save those occasions when a spacecraft landed in the cradle
adjacent the gateway, these portals were doubly locked and barred. But
today they had been unbolted that the two maintenance men might venture
out. And since it was quite possible that Brown and Roberts might have
to get inside in a hurry, their bolts remained drawn. Sole guardian of
the entrance was a very bored Junior Patrolman.

Up to this worthy strode Isobar Jones, confident and assured, exuding
an aura of propriety.

"Very well, Wilkins," he said. "I'll take over now. You may go to the
meeting."

Wilkins looked at him bewilderedly.

"Huh? Whuzzat, Mr. Jones?"

Isobar's eyebrows arched.

"You mean you haven't been notified?"

"Notified of _what_?"

"Why, the general council of all Patrolmen! Weren't you told that I
would take your place here while you reported to G.H.Q.?"

"I ain't," puzzled Wilkins, "heard nothing about it. Maybe I ought to
call the office, maybe?"

And he moved the wall-audio. But Isobar said swiftly. "That--er--won't
be necessary, Wilkins. My orders were plain enough. Now, you just run
along. I'll watch this entrance for you."

"We-e-ell," said Wilkins, "if you say so. Orders is orders. But keep a
sharp eye out, Mister Jones, in case Roberts and Brown should come back
sudden-like."

"I will," promised Isobar, "don't worry."

       *       *       *       *       *

Wilkins moved away. Isobar waited until the Patrolman was completely
out of sight. Then swiftly he pulled open the massive gate, slipped
through, and closed it behind him.

A flood of warmth, exhilarating after the constantly regulated
temperature of the Dome, descended upon him. Fresh air, thin, but
fragrant with the scent of growing things, made his pulses stir with
joyous abandon. He was Outside! He was Outside, in good sunlight, at
last! After six long and dreary months!

Raptly, blissfully, all thought of caution tossed to the gentle breezes
that ruffled his sparse hair, Isobar Jones stepped forward into the
lunar valley....

How long he wandered thus, carefree and utterly content, he could not
afterward say. It seemed like minutes; it must have been longer. He
only knew that the grass was green beneath his feet, the trees were a
lacy network through which warm sunlight filtered benevolently, the
chirrupings of small insects and the rustling whisper of the breezes
formed a tiny symphony of happiness through which he moved as one
charmed.

It did not occur to him that he had wandered too far from the Dome's
entrance until, strolling through an enchanting flower-decked glade, he
was startled to hear--off to his right--the sharp, explosive bark of a
Haemholtz ray pistol.

He whirled, staring about him wildly, and discovered that though his
meandering had kept him near the Dome, he had unconsciously followed
its hemispherical perimeter to a point nearly two miles from the
Gateway. By the placement of ports and windows, Isobar was able to
judge his location perfectly; he was opposite that portion of the
structure which housed Sparks' radio turret.

And the shooting? That could only be--

He did not have to name its reason, even to himself. For at that
moment, there came racing around the curve of the Dome a pair of
figures, Patrolmen clad in fatigue drab. Roberts and Brown. Roberts was
staggering, one foot dragged awkwardly as he ran; Brown's left arm,
bloodstained from shoulder to elbow, hung limply at his side, but in
his good right fist he held a spitting Haemholtz with which he tried to
cover his comrade's sluggish retreat.

And behind these two, grim, grey, gaunt figures that moved with
astonishing speed despite their massive bulk, came three ... six ... a
dozen of those lunarites whom all men feared. The Grannies!


                                  III

Simultaneously with his recognition of the pair, Joe Roberts saw him. A
gasp of relief escaped the wounded man.

"Jones! Thank the Lord! Then you picked up our cry for help? Quick,
man--where is it? Theres not a moment to waste!"

"W-where," faltered Isobar feebly, "is _what_?"

"The tank, of course! Didn't you hear our telecast? We can't possibly
make it back to the gate without an armored car. My foot's broken,
and--" Roberts stopped suddenly, an abrupt horror in his eyes. "You
don't have one! You're here _alone_! Then you didn't pick up our call?
But, why--?"

"Never mind that," snapped Isobar, "now!" Placid by nature, he could
move when urgency drove. His quick mind saw the immediateness of their
peril. Unarmed, he could not help the Patrolmen fight a delaying action
against their foes, nor could he hasten their retreat. Anyway, weapons
were useless, and time was of the essence. There was but one temporary
way of staving off disaster. "Over here ... this tree! Quick! Up you
go! Give him a lift, Brown--There! That's the stuff!"

He was the last to scramble up the gnarled bole to a tentative leafy
sanctuary. He had barely gained the security of the lowermost bough
when a thundering crash resounded, the sturdy trunk trembled beneath
his clutch. Stony claws gouged yellow parallels in the bark scant
inches beneath one kicking foot, then the Granny fell back with a thud.
The Graniteback was _not_ a climber. It was far too ungainly, much too
weighty for that.

Roberts said weakly, "Th-thanks, Jonesy! That was a close call."

"That goes for me, too, Jonesy," added Brown from an upper bough.
"But I'm afraid you just delayed matters. This tree's O.Q. as long
as it lasts, but--" He stared down upon the gathering knot of
Grannies unhappily--"it's not going to last long with that bunch of
superdreadnaughts working out on it! Hold tight, fellows! Here they
come!"

For the Grannies, who had huddled for a moment as if in telepathic
consultation, now joined forces, turned, and as one body charged
headlong toward the tree. The unified force of their attack was like
the shattering impact of a battering ram. Bark rasped and gritted
beneath the besieged men's hands, dry leaves and twigs pelted about
them in a tiny rain, tormented fibrous sinews groaned as the aged
forest monarch shuddered in agony.

Desperately they clung to their perches. Though the great tree bent, it
did not break. But when it stopped trembling, it was canted drunkenly
to one side, and the erstwhile solid earth about its base was broken
and cracked--revealing fleshy tentacles uprooted from ancient moorings!

       *       *       *       *       *

Brown stared at this evidence of the Grannies' power with
terror-fascinated eyes. His voice was none too firm.

"Lord! Piledrivers! A couple more like that--"

Isobar nodded. He knew what falling into the clutch of the Grannies
meant. He had once seen the grisly aftermath of a Graniteback feast.
Even now their adversaries had drawn back for a second attack. A sudden
idea struck him. A straw of hope at which he grasped feverishly.

"You telecast a message to the Dome? Help should be on the way by now.
If we can just hold out--"

But Roberts shook his head.

"We sent a message, Jonesy, but I don't think it got through. I've just
been looking at my portable. It seems to be busted. Happened when they
first attacked us, I guess. I tripped and fell on it."

Isobar's last hope flickered out.

"Then I--I guess it won't be long now," he mourned. "If we could have
only got a message through, they would have sent out an armored car to
pick us up. But as it is--"

Brown's shrug displayed a bravado he did not feel.

"Well, that's the way it goes. We knew what we were risking when we
volunteered to come Outside. This damn moon! It'll never be worth
a plugged credit until men find some way to fight those murderous
stones-on-legs!"

Roberts said, "That's right. But what are _you_ doing out here, Isobar?
And why, for Pete's sake, the bagpipes?"

"Oh--the pipes?" Isobar flushed painfully. He had almost forgotten
his original reason for adventuring Outside, had quite forgotten
his instrument, and was now rather amazed to discover that somehow
throughout all the excitement he had held onto it. "Why, I just
happened to--Oh! _the pipes!_"

"Hold on!" roared Roberts. His warning came just in time. Once more,
the three tree-sitters shook like dried peas in a pod as their leafy
refuge trembled before the locomotive onslaught of the lunar beasts.
This time the already-exposed roots strained and lifted, several
snapped; when the Grannies again withdrew, complacently unaware that
the "lethal ray" of Brown's Haemholtz was wasting itself upon their
adamant hides in futile fury, the tree was bent at a precarious angle.

Brown sobbed, not with fear but with impotent anger, and in a gesture
of enraged desperation, hurled his now-empty weapon at the retreating
Grannies.

"No good! Not a damn bit of good! Oh, if there was only some way of
fighting those filthy things--"

But Isobar Jones had a one-track mind. "The pipes!" he cried again,
excitedly. "That's the answer!" And he drew the instrument into playing
position, bag cuddled beneath one arm-pit, drones stiffly erect over
his shoulder, blow-pipe at his lips. His cheeks puffed, his breath
expelled. The giant lung swelled, the chaunter emitted its distinctive,
fearsome, "_Kaa-aa-o-o-o-oro-oong!_"

Roberts moaned.

"Oh, Lord! A guy can't even die in peace!"

And Brown stared at him hopelessly.

"It's no use, Isobar. You trying to scare them off? They have no sense
of hearing. That's been proven--"

Isobar took his lips from the reed to explain.

"It's not that. I'm trying to rouse the boys in the Dome. We're right
opposite the atmosphere-conditioning-unit. See that grilled duct over
there? That's an inhalation-vent. The portable transmitter's out of
order, and our voices ain't strong enough to carry into the Dome--but
the sound of these pipes is! And Commander Eagan told me just a short
while ago that the sound of the pipes carries all over the building!

"If they hear this, they'll get mad because I'm disobeyin' orders.
They'll start lookin' for me. If they can't find me inside, maybe
they'll look Outside. See that window? That's Sparks' turret. If we can
make him look out here--"

"_Stop talking!_" roared Roberts. "Stop talking, guy, and start
blowing! I think you've got something there. Anyhow, it's our last
hope. _Blow!_"

"And quick!" appended Brown. "For here they come!"

[Illustration: _Isobar played, blew with all his might, while the
Grannies raged below._]

He meant the Grannies. Again they were huddling for attack, once more,
a solid phalanx of indestructible, granite flesh, they were smashing
down upon the tree.

"_Haa-a-roong!_" blew Isobar Jones.


                                  IV

And--even he could not have foreseen the astounding results of
his piping! What happened next was as astonishing as it was
incomprehensible. For as the pipes, filled now and primed to burst into
whatever substitute for melody they were prodded into, wailed into
action--the Grannies' rush came to an abrupt halt!

As one, they stopped cold in their tracks and turned dull, colorless,
questioning eyes upward into the tree whence came this weird and
vibrant droning!

So stunned with surprise was Isobar that his grip on the pipes relaxed,
his lips almost slipped from the reed. But Brown's delighted bellow
lifted his paralysis.

"Sacred rings of Saturn-look! They _like_ it! Keep playing, Jonesy!
Play, boy, like you never played before!"

And Roberts roared, above the skirling of the _piobaireachd_ into
which Isobar had instinctively swung, "Music hath charms to soothe the
savage beast! Then we were wrong. They _can_ hear, after all! See that?
They're lying down to listen--like so many lambs! Keep playing, Isobar!
For once in my life I'm glad to hear that lovely, wonderful music!"

Isobar needed no urging. He, too, had noted how the Grannies' attack
had stopped, how every last one of the gaunt grey beasts had suddenly,
quietly, almost happily, dropped to its haunches at the base of the
tree.

There was no doubt about it; the Grannies _liked_ this music. Eyes
raptly fixed, unblinking, unwavering, they froze into postures of
gentle beatitude. One stirred once, dangerously, as for a moment Isobar
paused to catch his breath, but Isobar hastily lipped the blow-pipe
with redoubled eagerness, and the Granny relapsed into quietude.

Followed then what, under somewhat different circumstances, should have
been a piper's dream. For Isobar had an audience which would not--and
in two cases _dared_ not--allow him to stop playing. And to this
audience he played over and over again his entire repertoire. Marches,
flings, dances--the stirring _Rhoderik Dhu_ and the lilting _Lassies
O'Skye_, the mournful _Coghiegh nha Shie_ whose keening is like the
sound of a sobbing nation.

_The Cock o' the North_, he played, and _Mironton_ ... _Wee Flow'r o'
Dee_ and _MacArthur's March_ ... _La Cucuracha_ and--

And his lungs were parched, his lips dry as swabs of cotton. Blood
pounded through his temples, throbbing in time to the drone of the
chaunter, and a dark mist gathered before his eyes. He tore the
blow-pipe from his lips, gasped,

"Keep playing!" came the dim, distant howl of Johnny Brown. "Just a few
minutes longer, Jonesy! Relief is on the way. Sparks saw us from his
turret window five minutes ago!"

And Isobar played on. How, or what, he did not know. The memory of
those next few minutes was never afterward clear in his mind. All he
knew was that above the skirling drone of his pipes there came another
sound, the metallic clanking of a man-made machine ... an armored tank,
sent from the Dome to rescue the beleaguered trio.

He was conscious, then, of a friendly voice shouting words of
encouragement, of Joe Roberts calling a warning to those below.

"Careful, boys! Drive the tank right up beneath us so we can hop in and
get out of here! Watch the Grannies--they'll be after us the minute
Isobar stops playing!"

Then the answer from below. The fantastic answer in Sparks' familiar
voice. The answer that caused the bagpipes to slip from Isobar's
fingers as Isobar Jones passed out in a dead faint:

"After you? Those Grannies? Hell's howling acres--_those Grannies are
stone dead_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Afterward, Isobar Jones said weakly, "But--dead? I don't understand.
Was it the sound-waves that killed them?"

Commander Eagan said, "No! Grannies absolutely cannot hear. That is
one thing we do know about them--though we will soon know a great deal
more, now that our biologists have a dozen carcasses to dissect, thanks
to you. But Grannies have no auditory apparatus."

"But then--what?" puzzled Isobar. "It couldn't be vibration, because
our Patrolmen tried shootin' 'em with the vibro-ray pistol, and
nothin' never happened--"

"Nevertheless," said Dr. Loesch quietly, "it _was_ vibration which
killed them, Isobar. That is, of course, only my conjecture, but I
believe subsequent study will prove I am correct.

"It was the effect of _dual_, or disharmonic vibration. You see, the
vibro-ray pistol expels an ultrasonic wave which disrupts molecular
construction sensitive to a single harmonic. The Grannies' composition
is more complex. It required the impact of two different wave-lengths,
impinging on their nerve centers at the same moment, to destroy them."

"And the bagpipe--" said Isobar with slowly dawning
comprehension--"emits two distinct tones at the same time!"

The full meaning of his words flashed upon Isobar. He turned to
Commander Eagan, sallow cheeks glowing with new color.

"Then--then what means we've licked our problem!" he cried. "We've
found a weapon that'll kill the Grannies, and it won't be necessary to
live inside Domes no more! Now we can move out into the open and live
like human beings!"

"Absolutely true!" agreed the Commander. "But _you_ will not be living
Outside, Jones. Not right away, anyway."

"H-uh? W-hat do you mean, Commander?"

"I mean," said Eagan sternly, "that regardless of results, you are
still guilty of flagrant disobedience to orders! That, as Commander of
this outpost, I cannot tolerate. You are hereby sentenced to thirty
days confinement to quarters!"

"But--" stammered Isobar--"but tarnation golly--"

"In the course of which time," continued Commander Eagan imperturbably,
"you will serve as Instructor for every man in the Dome--at double
salary!"

"You can't _do_ me like this!" wailed Isobar. "Jinky-wallopers, I
won't--Huh? What's 'at? Instructor? Instructor in _what_?"

"In the--er--art," said Eagan, "of bagpipe playing. If we are to
rid Luna of the Grannies, we must all learn how to perform on
that--er--lethal weapon. And, Jones, I think I can truthfully say that
this punishment hurts me more than it hurts you!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Trouble On Tycho, by Nelson S. Bond

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TROUBLE ON TYCHO ***

***** This file should be named 62260.txt or 62260.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/2/6/62260/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
