Project Gutenberg's The Sword of Johnny Damokles, by Hugh Frazier Parker

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Sword of Johnny Damokles

Author: Hugh Frazier Parker

Release Date: June 4, 2020 [EBook #62323]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SWORD OF JOHNNY DAMOKLES ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                     THE SWORD OF JOHNNY DAMOKLES

                        By HUGH FRAZIER PARKER

         The mad dreams of a crazed dictator had reached from
           the past and taken root in the dread Tsom Clan on
        Neptune, threatening the peaceful existence of a dozen
       worlds. There was little Timmy Gordon and Johnny Damokles
        could do--for they were prisoners of the Tsom, working
         on the monster bomb that was to signal the invasion.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


A cloudlet of dust whirled across Spaceport X and rose in the thin
Callistonian air to beat against the window. The sound was gritty,
abrasive. It hadn't rained for weeks, and the sky, clear of clouds,
hovered blacker than Holofernes' soul. Jupiter touched the horizon. And
far away, Neptune's pale blue light glowed softly.

Timmy Gordon walked to the window. "I've never seen old Neptune so
clear before," he said. "And say, Johnny, where'd they ever get a name
like that for a planet? Neptune! What's it mean?"

Johnny Damokles laid one fat, hairy hand on the bar. He wiped a glass
with his apron and smiled. "Sure, boss," he said. "All the time you
talking space, eating space. What's a good if you don't know why
planets get name?"

"Do you, chum?"

"Sure t'ing, boss. Greeks are all knowings about Neptune."

"Well?"

"She's this way. Neptune are a old Greek god, and he are importants for
rule the ocean. So what happens?"

"I'll bite, Johnny."

"A fellows finds it this planet. She ain't got a names and deesa
fellows t'ink she's all watery. So they name her for Mister Neptune.
Dem times long ago ... two t'ousand year ... t'ree t'ousand. What them
hells!"

"Aw for cripe's sake shut up! You dam' Greeks!"

Timmy and Damokles turned. Shelton Thurner, head pilot of the Jup-Cal
Line was sitting alone at a side table. He was drunk, very drunk, and
a wisp of black hair hung over his forehead. "Shut up!" he screamed,
"talkin' about the past! Dam' dumb Greek dishwasher! Neptune was
discovered 900 years ago, aroun' 1830 ... and who in hell cares what
it's named ... excep' a Greek." Thurner staggered to his feet. Liquor
spilled.

For a little man, Johnny Damokles was both fat and fast. One hand hit
the bar, he vaulted it, and faced Thurner. "What's for you cuss Greek?
She are good braves people...."

"I told you to shut up," said Thurner. He planted a big hand in Johnny
Damokles' face and shoved. Johnny fell, and Thurner kicked him brutally
in the side.

Then the room hit Thurner smack on the jaw.

"Want some more?" asked Timmy. He stared down at the hulking pilot, as
Thurner rolled over and rubbed his face. "Want another?" Timmy repeated.

The door opened, and the Director of Spaceport Operations stood framed
in its classic Callistonian marble columns.

"I want the two of you in my office. Special job for T-Three."

Timmy snapped to attention. T-3 was the one military department which
took immediate command of any pilot under any circumstances. Obedience
to T-3 was unquestioning and immediate. Even Thurner assumed a
semblance of military bearing and shook his head to clear the cobwebs.
He fell in beside Timmy and, scowling, followed the Director out.
Johnny Damokles watched them, wiping greasy glasses on a greasier apron
almost automatically.

The Office of the Director of Operations, shared by the Port Captain,
had been designed in 2475 by Anton Sestrovic.

Stars and planets moved silently across the ceiling in an endless
procession, while glowing dots, marking the positions of spaceships in
transit, crawled in well-defined lanes. Timmy shuffled his feet on the
carpet and waited for the Director to seat himself at his plexi-glass
desk. Thurner threw himself into a chair.

"Well?" grunted the big pilot, "what's T-Three after now? The feathers
from an angel's backside?"

The Director looked at him coldly, "No," he said. "Something a little
more dangerous to procure. Information is what they want."

"Why in hell don't they ask the Greek in the bar? He knows everything!
Ask his side-kick here."

Timmy flushed and knotted his fist. "You ask me ... later," he grunted.

"I can't. I'm on the Jupiter run in an hour."

"No," corrected the Director, "you're not on the Jupiter run. You're
heading for Neptune with Mister Gordon ... in his ship."

"Why pick on me?" interrupted Timmy. "I'm not fussy about whom I share
space with ... but I just cleaned ship ... and I don't like this lug."

"Sorry," said the Director. "Yours is the only ship in the Four Planets
fast enough to make the trip in time, but you're not licensed for
flight beyond Jupiter."

"How about another pilot?" Timmy pulled no punches in letting the
Director know how he, personally, felt about Mr. Shelton Thurner.

"I haven't another," the Director paused. "But you can take a third man
as super-cargo, Gordon. It might quiet down the Kilkenny-cat action."

A slow smile rolled over Timmy's face. "Okay," he said. "I'll take
Johnny Damokles."

Thurner leaped to his feet. "That dam' Greek dishwasher!" he exploded.
"What use is he in space?"

"He can sing ... and read Aristotle in the original Greek ... whoever
Aristotle was."

"Blast the whole job! I won't go!"

"Yes you will, Thurner," said the Director. "Report to Gordon's ship in
half an hour ... or turn in your license."

Thurner stomped out of the room. A slightly vulgar noise, issuing
through Timmy's pursed lips, was the last sound the big pilot heard.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What's next?" asked Timmy. He turned to the Director as he spoke.
"What's it all about?"

"See those dots on the space map?" The Director pointed ceilingward to
a spot where a cluster of red spots moved on a common center.

"Yes."

"This is a wild hunch. But I suspect them to be Neptunian ships ...
unlisted in our clearance papers."

"You think they're a menace?"

"Definitely!"

"Why?"

Instead of answering the question, the Director rose and walked across
the room to a row of hermetically sealed cases. Like the display units
in small and dusty museums, these held a few yellowed books, chunks of
unclassified rock, and an occasional fossil. But one of them was broken.

"This case," said the Director, "once held an obscure book by a
Twentieth Century warlord. Know the period?"

"I'm a mechanic," said Timmy.

"Most of us are these days. It's something of a pity. But in the middle
Twentieth Century, historians tell us of a semi-civilized chieftain
named Hetlir, or Schicklegrub, who managed to control the mass of
Europa through an intelligent but utterly unscrupulous plan. The seeds
of that plan lie in a book called _Mein Kampst_ ... and this case once
held a copy."

"I see," said Timmy, but he didn't.

"Two years ago," continued the Director, "I entertained a leader of the
Neptunian Tsom clan. When he left, the book went with him."

"How can a book affect us?"

"Easily. Our only defense against the powerful semi-humans of Neptune
has been their own inability to organize any planetary unity. They
trade with us on a basis of toleration ... but they're not friends."

"Why haven't they attacked before?"

"Their clan system, and their wars at home."

"I see," said Tim, and this time he really did. "Then, you figure that
if one clan could dominate Neptune, they'd strike?"

"Yes. And Hetlir's plan calls for precisely the sort of planetary
organization that would suit the Neptunians. A master-race
dominates ... and on Neptune ... that master-race would probably be the
Tsom clan. _They_ have a copy of _Mein Kampst_."

"You believe they've done it?"

"I see no other reason why ships should hover near our Callistonian
frontier for five days."

"Then, I'll go investigate in the _Solabor_."

"Not the ships, Timmy. I want you to check on Neptune from the dark
side. Look for two things. Are there any Neptunian cruisers massing?
Have the planetary wars ended?"

Timmy sprawled back in his chair. "The answers to those questions," he
said, "will tell us our next step."

"Exactly."

"I can leave in twenty minutes."

"Then," said the Director, "hop to it son. And I hope good luck goes
with you." On the ceiling, the ominous dots seemed to grow more clear
as their new significance thrust itself on Timmy. He grasped the
Director's hand, shook it briefly, and walked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Downstairs, in the Space Bar, Johnny Damokles sweated over some
unsavory concoction, and swore in six planetary languages, plus old
Greek and a frenzied form of English. His apron strings hung loose,
three knives and a toasting fork peeked out of his pockets.

"What's cookin'?" hailed Timmy.

The little Greek turned around. "West'in on'let," he blurted. "An' this
dam' blast Callisto garlic ... she are not fit for cooking dog meat!"

"A clear and sensible opinion," said Tim, "neatly expressed." He leaned
over the counter, tilted Johnny's frying pan to the floor, grabbed the
Greek's apron and whipped it loose. "Come on, chum," he said. "You've
just resigned."

Johnny looked sadly at the mess on the floor. "What's a matter of you,
dam' idiot? Who are resigned?"

"You did, Johnny. You're going out into space with me as cook ... and
I need somebody to prepare rat poison for my pilot." He stopped, and
watched Damokles' chin drop. "Come on," he repeated, "we're going
places."

"Crazies places?"

"Nope! Space."

Johnny Damokles' face lighted up with something of the glow his
ancestors must have shown at Thermopylae and Salamis. "No kid? You
take me? Oh, Meester Timmy Gordon ... you is a dam sweet feller." His
cap went sailing skyward. His apron followed suit, and he grabbed a
twisted necktie from beneath the counter. "Hey, boy!" he shouted to an
open-mouthed waiter. "I is resigned. Tell her to the boss. Goom bye!"

"Look--" the waiter began.

"You look!" Timmy said, grinning.

Johnny grabbed a handful of tattered books from under the counter,
picked up his toasting fork and knives, slapped a checkered cap on his
head and dashed for the door as Timmy burst out laughing.

"Whassamatter, Meester Tims. You go crazies?"

"Not me ... but you. Come on, Space-hawk. Let's hit the hangar."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hangar 6, block 8, where Timmy kept the _Solabor_, was one of the
smaller impervium shanties built to accommodate just such independents
as himself. It lay at the end of the field, sheltered from the major
launching-cradle by a thick growth of scrub hedge. Timmy whistled as
he walked toward it, and Johnny Damokles picked up the tune. "Where we
go, Tim?" asked the Greek, and waved his fork in circles. "Maybe go
Jupiters?"

"Nope. Can't tell you till we're aboard ship." The hangar lay just
ahead. The _Solabor_ was ready. Timmy grinned.

And then he stopped.

No, that statement is incorrect. _Timmy was stopped._ His feet dangled
stiffly in air, as steel-strong hands, powerful as an atomic lift,
closed hard on his throat ... and lifted. His shout of warning was a
muttered croak. Then the world faded away in a purplish-gray haze. The
only sensation as darkness fell was a refrigerant chill biting at his
neck. Blackness.

[Illustration: _Steel-strong hands closed about Timmy's throat._]

"Whassamatter, Timmy ... you no sing?" asked the little Greek. He
turned around. His chin dropped with an almost audible thud on his
chest. And then, Johnny Damokles moved forward, blindly, heroically, a
28th Century Leonidas armed with a toasting fork.


                                  II

Timmy Gordon awakened to find his immediate world in a chill of killing
frost. Cold water ran down his brow. Johnny Damokles' muttered curses
penetrated his consciousness. "What ... hap ... happened?"

"Don't speaks ... you almost go for rides with Father Charon on one-way
ferryboat. Look!" Johnny turned Tim's head tenderly to one side, and
the young flyer gasped.

"Great flying dragons!"

Timmy's eyes traveled over the squat bulk of a figure clad from head
to foot in heavy synthi-leather. "A Neptunian," he blurted, "but dead.
How? Who did it?"

"I did it ... with toastings fork!"

"What?" Timmy's head went round in circles, "You killed one ton of
concentrated Neptunian-venom with a toasting fork?"

"Sure things, boss. I stick heavy fellers with fork. He go hiss. Then
bad smells. Then fall down ... _woosh!_" Damokles gave a graphic
description in pantomime, and Timmy understood how this seeming miracle
had happened. A Neptunian, accustomed to a mass of seventeen times that
of Earth normal, a normal temperature at minus-180 Centigrade, and
a methane plus solid oxygen atmosphere, would need some insulating,
restricting suit to move about on frail Callisto. Apparently Johnny's
fork had struck a weak spot in the refrigerant-suit, and a mild
Callistonian climate had literally boiled the Neptunian to death.

Timmy staggered to his feet and tramped through the artificial frost to
the Neptunian's side. A tiny mark, distinctive and simple, was branded
on his assailant's collar. "The Tsom clan," said Timmy to himself. "The
Director was right ... but why did he attack me in particular?"

Johnny Damokles pointed, "Look!" he said.

A bulky figure broke from the bushes and darted toward Hangar 6, but
in that darkness, it was unrecognizable. "Get him!" barked Timmy, and
raced down the path.

The figure, whoever and whatever it was, had disappeared by the time
Timmy Gordon reached his ship. A quick inspection showed nothing in
the hangar, and he climbed aboard the _Solabor_.

"About time you came," grumbled Shelton Thurner. He threw an empty
bottle through the door and climbed from his seat in the back of the
ship. "You ready to go?"

Gordon disregarded the question. "You see anyone come down here?"

"No. Been all alone."

"A Neptunian attacked me back in the bushes. Look," he showed Thurner
the frost-bitten bruises on his throat. "Whoever set the Neptunian
on me came this way ... _fast_!" He moved forward, seized Thurner by
the shoulder, and laid his hand on the pilot's heavily-muscled chest.
If Thurner had been the man, speedy running would have resulted in
irregular breathing and heart-action. But the pilot's breathing was
calm and normal. With an angry snarl he seized Timmy's wrist and flung
him backward.

"Keep your hands to yourself, Gordon!" Thurner hissed.

"Sorry." Timmy's eyes squinted into slits, "I was just proving you
innocent ... to my own satisfaction." He turned, climbed out of the
ship, and hurriedly called the Director to report what had occurred.
"Shall I stay on," he asked, "and help investigate?"

"No. We'll clean up the mess. Blast off as soon as possible, and get
back here sooner!"

"QX, sir," said Tim, and hoisted himself aboard ship. "All set?"

"Been ready for twenty minutes."

"Yowsah, boss!" chimed Johnny Damokles.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was utter silence, but in the midst of it, Callisto vanished.
Seconds later Jupiter's bulk faded redly from the sky to become a dot
silhouetted sunward. And all in silence.

"Lord, man!" Thurner looked at Timmy with a hint of surprise veiling
his usual antagonism. "How in hell does this thing work?"

"Search me," shrugged Timmy. "I worked it out on a sensitizing
principle. My impervium hull was supposed to reject light as a mirror
would, and so throw itself forward like a beam of light. The thing
works, too."

"She sure do," chuckled the delighted Greek. He looked through the
sunward port and watched Jupiter diminishing. "Great Scotts!" he
yelled. "This ships are fast like Greek god, Mercury!"

"And just as inexplicable."

"Why, man?" asked Thurner, "You've told us how she worked."

"You mean ... how I _thought_ she would work. Unfortunately, I tried
the same principle on more impervium ... and not another ship has flown
like this one. My math was wrong, but my mechanics worked. Just once."

"So I'm supposed to operate a fluke to Neptune?"

"Don't worry about it, Thurner. She's dependable and her controls are
exactly like those in an ordinary planetary-liner. Watch." Timmy threw
the wheel down, and the _Solabor_ tipped into a wide curve. Jupiter
vanished. Dotted pinpoints of stars prickled the black of inter-world
space.

"Looks easy," grunted the pilot. He slipped over into the wheelman's
chair, and fiddled experimentally with gadgets. "Okay," he said, "after
four or five minutes I'll be able to handle her."

"QX," said Timmy. "There's a copy of Maconachy's book on Supra-solar
Navigation behind you. Great book, Maconachy, wouldn't want to be in
space without it to lean on." Thurner grunted again.

"Yeah. Good stuff for you practical astrogators. Put it over there in
reach. And listen...." Thurner's voice lost some of its begrudging
tone. "We're on this trip together. Let's make it peaceable." He
stretched out a broad paw, and Timmy shook. Thurner, for all his
slyness and for all the ease with which Tim had knocked him down back
there in the Space Bar, was a powerful man. Tim wondered why he hadn't
fought back.

"All right!" he said, "We're together ... for the duration."

"It's a bargain. Now ... tell me more about how she operates. This
ship's _actually faster_ than light?"

"Yep! Warps across a light beam just the way a sailboat can exceed the
speed of wind on a certain tacks. Look back at the sun."

Thurner turned his head. "I'll be damned. A Doppler effect!"

"We're exceeding the speed of light ... right now!"

"And you're sure this principle of yours won't work on any other ship.
Was there anything mixed with the impervium?"

"Central labs checked it," Timmy replied. "It was pure impervium."

"Where'd you get it?"

"By _coincidence_ ... from Neptune."

Thurner's face went red. "Look, guy," he said, "The war's off, and I
don't like being played for a fool. There's no impervium on Neptune."

"Sorry, Thurner. This metal did come from Neptune. I bought the back
fin of the old XC-34 ... it was towed in from Nep back in '67."

"I see." Thurner's brows knitted, and he muttered an apology. Then,
turning away, he ran through the logarithms in Maconachy, made a few
quick checks, shifted dials coolly and competently, and leaned back.
"I'll take her in from here," he said.

"From the dark side," cautioned Tim.

"Okay. I'll drive part way to Pluto ... then swing back."

"QX," said Gordon. He spun about and walked to the back of the little
ship. "How do you like it, Johnny?" he asked, and Damokles' face
lighted up.

"She's one dam' fine ship ... go like go-to-hell fireball ... but look
it here, Meester Timmy."

"Yes?"

"Why you say she won't work for any other ships?"

"Just won't. That's all."

"Maybe this planets Neptune do it."

"How, Johnny? We tested the impervium from every angle, and found it
nothing but pure metal."

"Maybe is so. Dam' gods, Neptune, are funny feller. Sometimes he look
like friend ... sometimes he are foe. Sometimes just do nothing ... but
plenty happen just because Neptune are there. See?"

Tim whistled. "I see what you mean. Like a catalytic agent. You can't
detect it. You don't test it ... _but it does something_."

"Who's the difference? Call her cataltickic agents ... call her fool
gods Neptune. What them hells!" The little Greek shrugged his shoulders
and was silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Up in the _Solabor's_ bow, later, Thurner spun the dials on the
automatic calculator. Timmy watched him idly, then, moving away from
the window, fell asleep. Johnny Damokles hummed an old tune, and
lost himself in reveries on Greece. It was strange that so intense a
national feeling could survive the melting pot of world assimilation.
Yet the Greek national feeling had survived unchanged for more than
three thousand years. The greasy old suit which Johnny Damokles wore,
remained almost unchanged from the 20th Century attire which his
ancestors had worn at Crete and in the long, bloody fight down through
the mountains from Olympus. Alone amongst all the people of the 28th
Century, the Greeks remembered their past glory, and the bloody history
which had split them as a nation, yet welded the iron of heroism into
their souls.

Only the Greeks, in a world of mechanics and science, were still
concerned with events now dead and gone. Small nations may live ... in
tradition.

Johnny Damokles let his gaze slowly fall from that wild pattern of
unvisited universes which spread before him in the _Solabor's_
ports ... and slowly turned the pages of his beloved Aristotle. An
essay on the nature of the order of things caught his attention, but
reading was no pleasant occupation inside the _Solabor's_ stuffy little
cabin. Johnny's head nodded. His eyes fluttered. He fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Timmy Gordon's return from slumber was rather like the awakening of a
city-dweller whose ear is annoyed by a sudden onslaught of silence.
Accustomed by now to the sensation of motion, immobility woke him up.

"Stopped?" he yawned. "Why?" The cabin was dark, and in that velvety
obscuration, Timmy could barely see the recumbent sleeping form of
Johnny Damokles. He leaped to his feet. Strange, his body felt heavy,
leaden, drugged.

A faint bluish light, barely enough to weaken the black of night,
pushed its way through the window. Timmy staggered forward to the
control bench. Shelton Thurner was gone!

But where? How? Where were they?

Timmy reached for the starting button to test his motors, but the
panel had been stripped. Bare.

The answer came swiftly. To the accompaniment of a blast of noisome
gas, the door swung open. Two figures entered. The door thumped shut.

"Thurner!" gasped Timmy. "But what? Where've you been?" His questions
were interrupted, sharply. Behind Shelton Thurner, and barely visible,
stood the hulking figure of a Neptunian.

Thurner's hand shot out and clamped on Tim Gordon's arm, "Bow!" he
said. "You're on Neptune now ... you swine."

Timmy's fist shot out with the speed of a striking cobra, and a solid
blow bounced off the renegade pilot's jaw. Nothing happened. Thurner
grinned. His evil gapped-teeth gleamed. He raised his hand and brought
it down with a flat _thwack_ on the young Earthman's cheek. Timmy felt
as though a sharpened file had hit him. Warm blood ran down his chin,
and dripped floorward.

"Things are different now," said Thurner. "I don't have to take
anything from you pigs." He drew back his hand for a second blow, but
the figure behind him stepped forward.

"No!" it ordered. "Not now. There'll be time ... yet."

"What's all this?" snapped Timmy.

Thurner smirked, "You're on Neptune ... and are ... shall we say ... a
guest of the Tsom Clan."

"Distinctly," hissed the semi-human figure behind Thurner. "Oh most
distinctly ... a guest."

"And this ... renegade?"

"You allude to Shelton Thurner?"

"Yes!"

The Neptunian looked from Timmy to the big pilot. "I do not believe,"
he said, "that you will understand this easily. But you do your late
associate an injustice. He is no renegade ... but a leader of the Tsom
Clan."

"A Neptunian? Impossible!"

"Not at all my dear sir. We Neptunians have science. Given the proper
materials, our surgeons can duplicate the ... rather ... loathesome
appearance of you humans."

"You can make men out of a semi-human?"

"We are adaptable, my dear sir." The creature's nictitating membrane
drew up over his eyeballs and gave him a deceptively sleepy appearance.

"But what about the temperature? How could Thurner stand Callistonian
heat and gravity, when built for that of Neptune?"

"Enough of this foolish questioning!" barked Thurner, "Take the fools
outside."

The creature at his side raised a leather-clad hand in a peaceful,
gentle gesture. "Patience, friend," he said, "We owe our _guest_ much.
For he has much to give us."

"I have!" blurted Timmy.

"Yes!" the Neptunian's manner was calm and unruffled. "You, a skilled
practical mechanic, can contribute to a glorious Neptunian victory."

"And you think I will?"

"I know you will. No human-being has the nerve structure to stand up
under our harsher persuasive methods. It is quite important for us to
learn your method of treating impervium for these faster-than-light
ships."

"But my method doesn't work."

"That's true," interjected Thurner. "We talked about it on the way out."

"Most regrettable!" Again that unpleasant, half-dead membrane flashed
across the Neptunian's eyes. He seemed to sleep. Minutes passed before
he looked up again. "In that event," he said, "you must suffer for
the good of Neptune. Follow me." He waited while Timmy climbed into a
heated, anti-gravitational space suit.

Thurner cuffed Johnny Damokles to his feet and motioned for him to
put on a space suit. Then completely in command of the situation, the
Neptunians led Tim and Johnny out into the blue cold of a monster and
horrible world. They paused long enough for Thurner and his companion
to remove the space suits they'd worn in the heated cabin of the
_Solabor_, and when Thurner seemed to peel his very skin from his
body, Timmy understood the miracle by which the pilot had posed as a
Callistonian.


                                  III

The pilot was actually a Neptunian. But a beautifully made synthetic
skin served him as an undetectable protection against both heat and
gravity ... made him, to all appearances, an Inner-Worldian. Timmy was
amazed. These Neptunians were _surgeons_ ... and thermal engineers.

"This way," motioned the Neptunian, and drew in a vast breath of
Neptune's methane atmosphere. His chest swelled until its minute scales
seemed on the verge of separating. Man-like in height and size, his
adaptation to a terrible gravity had made him a creature of steel-hard
sinew and muscle. Thurner, or whatever his proper name might be, was
almost as solid and several inches taller. No wonder he could consume
Callistonian whisky by the quart and still navigate a ship successfully.

They walked across the plain, dropped downward into a slit-like canyon.
Ahead of them lay a fortress whose only decoration was the simple
symbol of the Tsom clan. Its walls bristled with blast guns, but closer
examination showed Timmy that they were all of an obsolete pattern.
Methane had clogged their rifling and made them utterly useless.

"These aren't used," said their guide. "Just there to frighten away
lower forms of life. Watch!" He flicked a switch, and the wall's outer
surface raised to reveal a vast network of grids. "Heat grids," he
explained. "Perfect defense against the other clans."

"But we don't need defence," added Thurner. "Neptune is a united planet
now."

The gates swung wide, and Timmy, with an empty feeling, walked in.
Johnny Damokles followed. His antiquarian interests still shielding him
from the horror of their situation.

The council chamber, holy-of-holies, audience room, or whatever the
Neptunians called it, was perhaps the most impressive place either
Timmy Gordon or Johnny Damokles had ever entered.

Black rock lined the walls and seemed one with the primeval essence of
absolute cold. Atmosphere, at 17 G's, pressed hard against them, barely
repelled by their space suits. The Neptunian turned. "If this," he
said, "were a nightmare, I'd order you to kneel and worship at the feet
of the Clan Tsom's god."

"Why not?" Timmy's belligerent Irish chin thrust out.

"Because, my dear guests, we have advanced considerably beyond such
idle superstitions. Neptune, and the Tsoms, are the perfection of true
civilization. We _know_ there are no gods. We are neither concerned
with ritual nor rank. Here, all are equal, under my _leadership_."

"Interesting," commented Timmy. "I seem to have heard it before."

Johnny Damokles nodded. "She are wonderfuls idea ... but gods is dam'
important fellers. So is old time's history."

The Neptunian looked at him. "What," he asked Thurner, "is this? Some
primitive?"

"A Greek," the pilot explained. "Sticks to the old beliefs and the old
ways of Terra."

Those nictitating lids nicked up. "Then ... he's of no use to us."

"He'll do for raw material." Thurner shoved the little Greek to the
floor, "Use him for Extract 47-a. Humanizing fluid."

The Neptunian shuddered. "The thought," he said, "of treating another
of our people with that semi-humanizing element is repulsive. But
sacrifice in the interest of conquest is needed. We must have more
Neptunians capable of resisting higher temperatures and lower
gravities."

Thurner grinned. "Precisely," he said. He turned to Timmy, and judged
him as a man might judge a Percheron stallion. "This one is too lean."

The Leader nodded. "Our dear guest will be of use in research and
mechanics. We might even grant him certain liberties."

Timmy glared at the monster, hating that assumed tolerance, then spat
with deliberation on the floor. "Try to use me," he grunted.

       *       *       *       *       *

"_A challenge?_" The Leader pressed a button. A bell rang, and two
squat Neptunians glided into the chamber. There was a burble and a
hissed command. The Neptunians retreated, then returned dragging a
small box behind them. Its wires were a tangle maze of tentacles.
Icy cold exuded from it, to chill the two Callistonians even through
their heavily-heated space suits. The Leader barked an order. Timmy
found himself flat on his back with a Neptunian servant pressing
the face-plate of his suit down hard. There was a little whirl of
power. Agonies unimaginable shot through every nerve of his skull. He
screamed. Restraint was impossible. The pain eased.

"You see!" said the Neptunian, "that treatment does no harm to nerves
or tissues, and actually prolongs life."

Timmy looked past the grinning faces of his tormenters and fixed his
glare on the reptilian Leader. "Try again," he said. "I'm still tough."

The pain came back. It spun through skull and brain like a biting
buzz-saw. Timmy gritted his teeth, then again came the inevitable
scream. He wanted to faint. He prayed for death. But that buzzing pain
was an elixir ... a stimulating and eternal torment. Timmy's hands
thumped hard against the floor. His feet jerked, his spine arched, and
he screamed again and again in a great crescendo. The pain eased.

"Could you stand that," said the grinning Neptunian, "for a lifetime?"

"_No!_"

"Then I warn you, the next time we apply it, you'll be alone in a dark
room ... with a time clock on the door set for a one-week period. No
one will enter. No one can stop the _treatment_. Will you cooperate?"

"Within limits."

"That's for me to judge. Give me the figures on how you managed to
create that ship of yours."

"That's agreeable. You could take them anyhow." Timmy reached into a
pocket of his space suit. He pulled out a bundle of papers and handed
them to the Leader. "I warn you," he added, "they won't work." Then he
swore at himself for saying that. If, by ingenuity, he could manage to
convince the Neptunians that his ship would work, he might waste a lot
of their time in research and give the Inner Worlds time to find out
what was happening. "I might manage to make one work at that," he added
swiftly.

The Neptunian scanned the papers. "No," he said, "this report of your
scientific laboratories is definitely conclusive. I can see that you've
done everything possible. The ship you have, or _had_, is a freak. But
you're an expert in mechanics and photography. We'll put you in the
research labs. Your friend can go with you until we need him."

The Neptunian cast one final look at the two captives, smiled, and
walked away. Thurner jerked his head at an inner door. "Come on," he
ordered. "Your quarters will be near the labs." He led them down a
succession of corridors to a room where temperature and gravity stood
at Earth-norm, and Callisto constant. "You can do without those suits,"
he said, and shut the door.

Timmy and Damokles looked around. The room was lighted quite brightly.
A window gave onto the plain. Above them, Triton whirled its endless
mad dance, speeding across the sky in the opposite direction of the
planet's rotation. Timmy watched it. Here and there in the dark sky,
synthetic power-moons hovered to steal energy from the cosmos.

"They gonna feed us, anyhows," said Johnny Damokles, and turned on the
faucet of a food conveyor. Hot, spicy-scented edibles poured forth,
but Timmy wasn't interested. Not far from them, half-lost in the gray
light, two giant semi-globes towered heavenwards. Tim stared at them.
Apparently the Neptunians were building another power-moon to add to
that whirling band above. He watched as squat figures moved up and
down its side, then walked from the window in a fog. Damokles tried to
engage him in conversation, but Timmy was too defeated. He fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Morning dawned swiftly because of the giant planet's rapid rotation.
Seven hours of total blackness were then followed by a _day_ ... but
a day in name only. The sun out here had only one one-thousandth of
its Earthian strength. For human purposes, it was useless. Timmy was
standing by the window when the door swung open. Thurner stood on the
threshold.

"Come on," he ordered, "your job is ready." He looked at Johnny
Damokles. "Might as well use you, too. Get into your space suit." The
little Greek obeyed.

The next seven hours passed as a nightmare for Timmy. For Johnny,
working outside as a slave on the power-moon, they must have been pure
hell.

Timmy returned to their room that evening to find a tired little Greek
sprawled on the couch. "Work you hard, chum?"

Damokles groaned. A livid weal ran down the side of his face, where a
blow had slammed his head about in his helmet. "We get these Neptune
bums ... Timmy," he said.

"Sure thing, pal. But how?"

The Greek shrugged his shoulders. "They guards you close?"

"No ... but we couldn't get away without the ship."

"Yeah." Damokles' chin dropped on his chest. "I guess we gives up."
But despite the Greek's apparent despair, he had an idea of some sort.
Timmy Gordon knew it, but he also knew that Johnny was afraid to talk
about it in a room where sound detectors might pick up any hint of
escape. "Let's go to sleep, Johnny," he said.

"Yeah ... you stay your side of bed, too. Last night you kick me blacks
and blue in rib."

Which was distinctly untrue.

But if that was the way Johnny wanted things ... it was distinctly QX
with Timmy Gordon. He stretched himself on the narrow couch beside
Johnny. For twenty minutes he seemed to doze, then began kicking about
fretfully, and muttering as though in the clutch of a nightmare.

"That's right, Timmy," the little Greek whispered. "Keep her going. You
kicks hard ... yells ... them spies are too busy watching you. I can
talks."

Timmy's reply was another boot to Johnny's shin. "Go on," he whispered,
then kicked again.

"Remember what I say to you in ships?"

"About what?"

"About fool gods Neptune ... cataltickic agents ... Aristotle."

"Yes."

"Maybe I are right."

"So what?"

"Maybe if impervium get soaked on Neptune long enough ... then maybes
it behave like metal in your ship?"

"Go on." Timmy groaned, thrashed about. Threw a fist that thudded into
Johnny's ribs. The Greek grunted, and resumed his whispering.

"They puts me working on power-moons outside."

"Yes?"

"She are mades from metal of wrecked space-liner. I see one plate who
say XC-34 on her."

"Great Jupiter, Johnny! That's the liner I got the metal for my ship
from ... just one fin was all I had to work with."

"Shut up! Dam' fools. Want him Neptune stinkers hear you?"

Instead of answering, Timmy grunted in his supposed sleep. Damokles
whispered on: "They don't guards me! They make me be dam' fool clowns
for Neptuners to laugh at. 'Get sky hook! Get bucket steam-ice!' That's
what them lizards-men holler at me."

"Yes?"

"Then ... _cracks_! Hit Greek with fist. Don't like."

"Skip it, Johnny. What's your idea?"

"I hear them say ... artificial power moon ain't gonna be that at
all. Gonna be giant bomb. Gonna load with tons an' tons an' tons of
_dynotron_. Shoot him to Jupiter ... blow all air off everythings!"

"Good lord! Dynotron would do just that ... and then they'll repeat the
procedure."

"Is right! I hear lizard-pig say just that!"

"How do you figure on stopping 'em, Johnny?"

Damokles wriggled, poked Timmy hard with his elbow. "Lay still!" he
shouted. "I can no sleeps!" He butted up against Timmy, and began to
whisper in fast chaotic broken murmurs. "I got a long story to tells
you, Timmy. All about powerful old Greeks' king."

For half an hour they trashed about, while Damokles unfolded his plan.
At last, Timmy grunted. "QX," he said. "Can do!" He rolled over and
fell into an extremely troubled sleep.


                                  IV

The next day, at Neptune's dawn, Johnny Damokles was led back to his
work on the _dynotron_ bomb. Timmy, sleepy-eyed and wavering, followed
his captors to a place in the mech lab. He worked quietly for half an
hour, then beckoned to his overseer.

"Yes?" hissed the Neptunian.

"I want to see your leader."

"Why?"

"None of your blasted business. Just do what you're told, or be mighty
blasted sorry."

The Neptunian scratched an itching neck flange. "All right," he said,
"but you'd better have something to make this worth while." He shoved
Timmy forward, released a door catch, and led him down the hall.
Three staccato raps opened another door, and Timmy again stood in the
presence of Neptune's Leader.

"Yes?" the Leader's voice was suave, but flat. "Oh, it's you ... you've
something important?"

"I want to work in the photo-lab."

"Something to do with your way of sensitizing impervium?"

"That's right."

"Utterly useless. We've checked the figures of your own labs and find
that they are completely accurate. That ship of yours is a freak ...
and we can see no reason as to _why_ it works."

"I still have an idea."

The Neptunian glared at him, and again that dead-alive membrane
concealed all key to his thoughts. "You're not trying to convince me
you're willing to join us, are you?"

"Nope," Timmy's Irish jaw shot out belligerently, "I just figure it'll
be easy to escape from there."

A hiss was apparently the Outer-worldian's manner of laughing, for the
hiss he emitted was as jovial a sound as Timmy had heard since landing
on the planet. "I mean it!" Timmy finished, "and I warn you to watch
me."

"Your spirit," the Neptune said, "is admirable." He scrawled a few
notes, handed them to Timmy. "Here," he said, "is an order to work in
the photo-labs. I shall watch your struggles with great pleasure." His
hand closed on Timmy's shoulder and Timmy gritted his teeth, shook his
way loose, and walked to the door.

Mockingly, the Leader laughed.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night, when Timmy returned to their room, he found the little
Greek seated, eyes blazing, on the bed. "S'matter, chum?"

"Dam-blasted Shelton Thurner ... chase me all over hell for sky-hook.
Don't like it!"

"Forget it. You're tired and so am I. Grab off a mouthful of that
synthi-food and let's hit the hay." He turned on the faucet, drew a cup
of steaming brew and handed it to the Greek.

"I got the mixture," he whispered between gulps. "Did you get the
metal?" The Greek nodded. "Yep," he replied, then in a louder tone.
"Let's get to bed, Timmy."

Lights were quickly extinguished, and the two, with much moaning and
groaning, crawled under the covers. But tonight there was need for
action, not talk. Timmy pushed the blankets up to make a low tent, and
handed Johnny a torch he'd stolen. Improvised though it was, their bed
made a flawless, light-tight darkroom. Timmy climbed out to make sure
no ray escaped, then plunged into bed again.

"The metal!" he grunted. Johnny Damokles handed him a tiny piece of
impervium. It was, approximately, three inches square.

"Swell," said Tim. "Now hold this light." He dug deep into his pockets
and pulled forth a bottle of stolen liquid. "As nearly as I can tell,
this is the same mixture I used in making my other ship." He dipped the
square of impervium in it, then waited. Dry at last, he wiped the metal
square until it shone, and grinned as the first reactions started.
"It works!" he nearly shouted. But that was neither the time nor the
place for shouting. "Watch!" he whispered. Taking the torch from Johnny
Damokles, he held it close against his treated impervium. The little
square darted away so swiftly that it nearly tore loose from his hand.
It did pull him a foot or so toward the edge of the bed before he
switched off his light. There was no doubt about it. Impervium, when
exposed to some unknown Neptunian radiation, underwent an untestable
change and behaved precisely as had the metal of his ship.

"Hallelujahs!" burbled Damokles beneath his breath. "Now we fix up dam'
fool Shelton Thurners."

"Maybe?" said Tim with unexpected pessimism. "I've stolen enough fluid
for feet on that dam' bomb." He paused, "Are you sure the whole thing's
impervium?"

"Yep! But how I gonna rub this stuff on ship?"

"Don't rub it. Pour this bottle on a high perpendicular point and let
it run down the sides. We'll take a chance that the dim light here on
Nep will prevent our process from knocking your bomb over ahead of
time."

"Yeah. Then you get more solutions. We pour her on ... an' dam' bomb go
sail away fast as hell!"

Timmy grinned. "Not quite, pal," he said, "I'm figuring on something
just a little more effective." He took a piece of paper and made a few
hasty sketches. Johnny Damokles watched with interest. Then he broke
into a smile.

"I see," nodded the Greek. "She are just like story I tell you about
old Greek king."

"Exactly.... And now, let me have time enough to get rid of our scrap
of test metal and we'll turn in."

"No," protested Damokles. "Give me this piece impervium. I got good
idea. Secret."

Timmy, without further question, handed Johnny the bit of treated
impervium and added to it his bottle of stolen liquid. "Good night,
chum," he mumbled, and rolled over to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten days and ten nights passed in that way. Each night Timmy had
another flask of his sensitizer to give Johnny. And each night Damokles
reported another successful application of the fluid. Miraculous that
the two of them could so successfully hoodwink their captors? Yes.
But then the Neptunians thought of the two as members of a lesser
race, and gave them almost complete freedom of movement ... within
limits. Timmy blessed the arrogance from which this stemmed. From the
photo-labs he stole his sensitizer. In the mech labs he succeeded in
removing and assembling certain vital cogs and rheostats. Put together
they would give him control of Neptune's gigantic _dynotron_ bomb. And
Timmy Gordon was the man to put any machinery together. He did it on
the tenth day. That same day, he stole a length of steel chain and a
sharpened metal hook. Why he stole them, Timmy Gordon didn't know. But
Damokles had asked him to, and he'd given his promise.

"Here you are," he said when he reached their room that night. He
slipped the hook and chain to Johnny beneath the covers of their bed.
"Goin' fishin' with it, chum?"

"You bet your dam' boots. I catch fat fish, too."

Timmy smiled. Then, quietly, he showed Johnny Damokles the piece of
apparatus he'd constructed. It looked somewhat like the primitive
20th Century radio sets one saw in museums, but its purpose, as Tim
explained, was more important. Compact, weighing no more than fifty or
sixty grams, it gave him complete radio control of anything treated
with his sensitizing fluid. What was more important, it took its power
from almost any faint source of light, and should be effective up to
two or three thousand miles.

"She work?" asked Damokles.

"She will if static doesn't cut me out too much."

"Dam' good," grunted the Greek. "Now we show them dam-blast Neptuners
what good Old Greek History are."

"Correct, chum. When will the bomb be ready?"

"She are ready now."

"Swell! I might as well blast her off."

"No!" Johnny Damokles' tone was urgent, pleading. "You wait ... do him
tomorrow when Neptune fellers can see."

Morning dawned with its usual dim lessening of the Neptunian murk.
A methane breeze rolled down from some distant mountain range and
swirled in noxious vapors across the plain. Two Neptunian guardsmen
saw a flicker of movement in a nearby sandheap and cut loose with the
fullest fury of their heat-grids. There was a crackle. An unassimilated
tribesman rolled over, kicked a spurred foot in the air, arched his
haunches and died.

The little tragedy, repeated time and again on that ruthless planet,
was no more than window-dressing for more significant events. The
crackling, burning grids were crackling arcs of doom. Like Gabriel's
trumpet, they served to awaken Tim and Johnny Damokles.

"What's dam' noise?" grunted the Greek.

"Target practice." Timmy was about to deliver further comments, but a
rap at the door cut him loose. "Come in!" he barked. The door opened.
The Leader entered.

"Ahhhh. Good morning, my dear guests." He rubbed his hands in a gesture
that grated scales together. "We've a special _treat_ for you this
morning. And perhaps, since you've displayed certain interests in
_history_, you'd enjoy sharing in the history of the future."

"Would we?" queried Timmy.

"Belligerence is an ill-fitting trait of yours, Mister Gordon," said
the Neptunian. "An inadequate one, I'll add."

"We're wasting time," interrupted Tim. "Get on with it!"

"Impetuous? You've a right to be. Get into your space suits and come
outside. We're launching a special present for the Jovian System ...
and feel that you gentlemen would enjoy it."

"I know," muttered Timmy.

"Of course, you do." The Leader was grinning as he spoke. "We've given
your companion full opportunity to tell you about it. But come
along ... unless you prefer a few rather ... delicate ... adjustments
of the nervous system."

Johnny Damokles laughed. But beyond that, neither he nor Tim had
anything further to say. They climbed into their space clothes and
followed the Leader out into the Neptunian twilight.


                                   V

In a natural amphitheater, walled in at one side by the cliff of the
ravine and sheltered from the methane wind by the parapets of the Tsom
fortress, stood the gigantic Neptunian bomb. Its impervium walls glowed
with a faint, cold light. Regularly, down its sides from ten points,
uneven streaks marked the course of Timmy's sensitizing fluid. Their
exact placement was coincidentally fortunate. Each served to counteract
the other, though the inward pressure they exerted must have been
tremendous indeed.

The Leader was laughing in a repulsively reptilian way as he ascended
his rostrum. Timmy and Damokles followed. "Observe," said the Leader,
"the ingenious controls by which I guide the rocket-blasts from this
remote station." He pointed to his control board, motioned Timmy and
Johnny to stay away from it, and chuckled as they obeyed. Then, for a
full hour, he delivered an impassioned and almost insane address to his
followers.

As near as Timmy could judge, the Leader's address was a skilful bit of
vituperation against the injustices done Neptune. But it was effective.
A frenzied circle of lizard-men howled as he finished speaking. "And
now," said the Leader, "we send our little present on his way."

He reached for the control board. The bomb shot heavenward.

Yes, it shot heavenward.

But the Leader _hadn't touched_ the controls.

Timmy's fingers anticipated him. A flick on his own secret control
board had shot the bomb silently out toward the void. The Leader's
finger froze in mid-air. His jaw dropped. He followed the bomb in its
flight, and every muscle tightened, when it stopped dead at a point
half a mile above Neptune. There the bomb hovered, unmoving. Its orbit,
if an orbit you could call it, held it exactly above the center of the
Tsom fortress. The Leader's finger jammed down on his control button.

Flames blasted from the bomb's jets. It whirled crazily on its own
axis ... but was otherwise immovable.

"Interesting, isn't it?" said Timmy mockingly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Leader looked at him. "You've done this?" His tone was most
incredulous. He darted toward Timmy.

"Don't move," ordered the Earthman. He flicked a button and the great
bomb dropped silently. The Leader stopped. There was utter silence as
every creature in the amphitheater realized what was happening.

"Well," said the Leader at last, "it's an impasse, isn't it."

"No ... it's check ... and check-mate."

"Yes," chuckled Johnny Damokles, "she are old Greeks' gambit."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Leader darted back to his control board. Again and again he shot
every ounce of power into the bomb's blasts. Nothing happened. It spun
about at that same tantalizing half-mile above their heads.

"Most ingenius," said the Leader. "You falsified those papers on how
your principle worked?"

"Believe that if you want," said Timmy with a shrug. "And now ... I'm
taking over."

The Leader bowed.

But Johnny Damokles stepped into the picture.

"I take over first," he said. "I gots present for dam' blast Shelton
Thurner." He leaned over the front of the rostrum and caught the
big Neptunian spy by the coat collar. Timmy, guarding against any
treacherous assault, kept his eyes on the Leader and the bomb.

"Holla, Meester Shelton Thurner," greeted the Greek, "You ask Johnny
Damokles dam' fool question. You want sky-hook? Good! I gots sky-hook."
From a capacious pocket of his space britches he drew a hook and a
dangling length of chain. He tightened the collar and jabbed the hook
through it. "Goombye, Meester No-goods!" he chortled. He jerked the
rest of the chain from his pocket. A few scraps of treated impervium
were hitched to its end. Light hit them. They shot aloft, dragging
Thurner behind them like the tail of a crazy kite, and dangled high
above the plain.

"How you like sky-hooks?" yelled the Greek.

Timmy laughed.

"I regret," said the Leader in a suavely courteous tone, "the loss of
an aide. But tell me, how did you evolve this ingenious plan? Am I
over-inquisitive?"

"The plan ... belongs to Johnny Damokles."

"Sure Mikes!" blurted the Greek. "She are old Greeks' story. You tell
her, Timmy. My talk all mixed with sky-hooks!"

Timmy fingered his control board. "Long ago," he said, "a Greek king
acquired excessive power through force. As a symbol of that force ...
a sword dangled always above his head. By a hair. The king's name ...
like that of my friend ... was Damocles. They call the story, _The
Sword of Damocles_."

Above their heads hovered that menacing ball of _dynotron_, enough to
blast all life from Neptune. The Neptunian leader watched it.

"I believe ... that I understand." He turned away, then swung back
again. "One must accept facts intelligently. Visiphone your Terrestian
diplomats. Neptune will accept any reasonable terms."

Overhead, the sword of Johnny Damokles glowed faintly.

"The Greeks," Johnny Damokles said softly to nobody in particular,
"have a word for it. _Freedom!_" He smiled. "Let'sa call home, Tims.
I'm cold!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Sword of Johnny Damokles, by 
Hugh Frazier Parker

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SWORD OF JOHNNY DAMOKLES ***

***** This file should be named 62323.txt or 62323.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/3/2/62323/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
