The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Blue Behemoth, by Leigh Brackett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Blue Behemoth

Author: Leigh Brackett

Release Date: June 8, 2020 [EBook #62349]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BLUE BEHEMOTH ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           The Blue Behemoth

                           By LEIGH BRACKETT

                Shannon's Imperial Circus was a jinxed
               space-carny leased for a mysterious tour
               of the inner worlds. It made a one-night
                  pitch on a Venusian swamp-town--to
                  find that death stalked it from the
                    jungle in a tiny ball of flame.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Bucky Shannon leaned forward across the little hexagonal table. He
knocked over the pitcher of _thil_, but it didn't matter. The pitcher
was empty. He jabbed me in the breastbone with his forefinger, not
very hard. Not hard enough to jar the ribs clean loose, just enough to
spring them.

"We," he said, "are broke. We are finished, through. Washed up and
down the drain." He added, as an afterthought, "Destitute."

I looked at him. I said sourly, "You're kidding!"

"Kidding." Shannon put his elbows on the table and peered at me through
a curtain of very blond hair that was trying hard to be red. "He says
I'm kidding! With Shannon's Imperial Circus, the Greatest Show in
Space, plastered so thick with attachments...."

"It's no more plastered than you are." I was sore because he'd been a
lot quicker grabbing the pitcher. "The Greatest Show in Space. Phooey!
I've wet-nursed Shannon's Imperial Circus around the Triangle for
eleven years, and I know. It's lousy, it's mangy, it's broken-down!
Nothing works, from the ship to the roustabouts. In short, it stinks!"

I must have had the pitcher oftener than I thought. Nobody insults
Buckhalter Shannon's Imperial Circus to Buckhalter Shannon's face
unless he's tired and wants a long rest in a comfy fracture-frame.

Shannon got up. He got up slowly. I had plenty of time to see his
grey-green eyes get sleepy, and hear the quarter-Earth-blood Martian
girl wailing about love over by the battered piano, and watch the
slanting cat-eyes of the little dark people at the tables swing round
toward us, pleased and kind of hungry.

I had plenty of time to think how I only weigh one-thirty-seven to
Shannon's one-seventy-five, and how I'm not as young as I used to be.

I said, "Bucky. Hold on, fella. I...."

Somebody said, "Excuse me, gentlemen. Is one of you Mister Buckhalter
Shannon?"

Shannon put his hands down on his belt. He closed his eyes and smiled
pleasantly and said, very gently:

"Would you be collecting for the feed bill, or the fuel?"

I shot a glance at the newcomer. He'd saved me from a beating, even if
he was a lousy bill-collecter; and I felt sorry for him. Bucky Shannon
settled his shoulders and hips like a dancer.

The stranger was a little guy. He even made me look big. He was dressed
in dark-green synthesilk, very conservative. There was a powdering of
grey in his hair and his skin was pink, soft, and shaved painfully
clean. He had the kind of a face that nice maiden-ladies will trust
with their last dime. I looked for his strong-arm squad.

There didn't seem to be any. The little guy looked at Shannon with pale
blue eyes like a baby, and his voice was softer than Bucky's.

He said, "I don't think you understand."

I felt cold, suddenly, between the shoulders. Somebody scraped a chair
back. It sounded like he'd ripped the floor open, it was so quiet. I
got my brassies on, and my hands were sweating. Bucky Shannon sighed,
and let his fist start traveling, a long, deceptive arc.

Then I saw what the little guy was holding in his hand.

I yelled and knocked the table over into Bucky. It made a lot of noise.
It knocked him sideways and down, and the little dark men jumped up,
quivering and showing their teeth. The Martian girl screamed.

Bucky heaved the table off his lap and cursed me. "What's eating you,
Jig? I'm not going to hurt him."

"Shut up," I said. "Look what he's got there. Money!"

The little guy looked at me. He hadn't turned a hair. "Yes," he said.
"Money. Quite a lot of it. Would you gentlemen permit me to join you?"

Bucky Shannon got up. He grinned his pleasantest grin. "Delighted. I'm
Shannon. This is Jig Bentley, my business manager." He looked down at
the table. "I'm sorry about that. Mistaken identity."

The little guy smiled. He did it with his lips. The rest of his face
stayed placid and babyish, almost transparent. I realized with a start
that it wasn't transparent at all. It was the most complete dead-pan I
ever met, and you couldn't see into those innocent blue eyes any more
than you could see through sheet metal.

I didn't like him. I didn't like him at all. But he had money. I said,
"Howdy. Let's go find a booth. These Marshies make me nervous, looking
like hungry cats at a mouse-hole."

The little guy nodded. "Excellent idea. My name is Beamish. Simon
Beamish. I wish to--ah--charter your circus."

       *       *       *       *       *

I looked at Bucky. He looked hungrier than the Marshies did. We didn't
say anything until we got Beamish into a curtained booth with a fresh
pitcher of _thil_ on the table. Then I cleared my throat.

"What exactly did you have in mind, Mr. Beamish?"

Beamish sipped his drink, made a polite face, and put it down. "I have
independent means, gentlemen. It has always been my desire to lighten
the burden of life for those less fortunate...."

Bucky got red around the ears. "Just a minute," he murmured, and
started to get up. I kicked him under the table.

"Shut up, you lug. Let Mister Beamish finish."

He sat down, looking like a mean dog waiting for the postman. Beamish
ignored him. He went on, quietly,

"I have always held that entertainment, of the right sort, is the most
valuable aid humanity can have in its search for the alleviation of
toil and boredom...."

I said, "Sure, sure. But what was your idea?"

"There are many towns along the Venusian frontiers where no
entertainment of the--_proper_ sort has been available. I propose to
remedy that. I propose to charter your circus, Mister Shannon, to make
a tour of several settlements along the Tehara Belt."

Bucky had relaxed. His grey-green eyes began to gleam. He started to
speak, and I kicked him again.

"That would be expensive, Mister Beamish," I said. "We'd have to cancel
several engagements...."

He looked at me. I was lying, and he knew it. But he said,

"I quite understand that. I would be prepared...."

The curtains were yanked back suddenly. Beamish shut up. Bucky and I
glared at the head and shoulders poking in between the drapes.

It was Gow, our zoo-man--a big, ugly son-of-a-gun from a Terran
colony on Mercury. I was there once. Gow looks a lot like the
scenery--scowling, unapproachable, and tough. His hands, holding the
curtains apart, had thick black hair on them and were not much larger
than the hams of a Venusian swamp-rhino.

He said, "Boss, Gertrude's actin' up again."

"Gertrude be blowed," growled Bucky. "Can't you see I'm busy?"

Gow's black eyes were unpleasant. "I'm tellin' you, Boss, Gertrude
ain't happy. She ain't had the right food. If something...."

I said, "That'll all be taken care of, Gow. Run along now."

He looked at me like he was thinking it wouldn't take much timber to
fit me for a coffin. "Okay! But Gertrude's unhappy. She's lonesome,
see? And if she don't get happier pretty soon I ain't sure your tin-pot
ship'll hold her."

He pulled the curtains to and departed. Bucky Shannon groaned. Beamish
cleared his throat and said, rather stiffly,

"Gertrude?"

"Yeah. She's kind of temperamental." Bucky took a quick drink. I
finished for him.

"She's the star attraction of our show, Mr. Beamish. A real blue-swamp
Venusian _cansin_. The only other one on the Triangle belongs to Savitt
Brothers, and she's much smaller than Gertrude."

She was also much younger, but I didn't go into that. Gertrude may be
a little creaky, but she's still pretty impressive. I only hoped she
wouldn't die on us, because without her we'd have a sicker-looking
circus than even I could stand.

Beamish looked impressed. "A _cansin_. Well, well! The mystery
surrounding the origin and species of the _cansin_ is a fascinating
subject. The extreme rarity of the animal...."

We were getting off the subject. I said tactfully, "We'd have to have
at least a hundred U.C.'s."

It was twice what we had any right to ask. I was prepared to dicker.
Beamish looked at me with that innocent dead pan. For a fraction of a
second I thought I saw something back of his round blue eyes, and my
stomach jumped like it was shot. Beamish smiled sweetly.

"I'm not much of a bargainer. One hundred Universal Credits will be
agreeable to me." He dragged out a roll as big as my two fists, peeled
off half a dozen credit slips, and laid them on the table.

"By way of a retainer, gentleman. My attorney and I will call on you in
the morning with a contract and itinerary. Good night."

We said good night, trying not to drool. Beamish went away. Bucky made
grab for the money, but I beat him to it.

"Scram," I said. "There are guys waiting for this. Big guys with clubs.
Here." I gave him a small-denomination slip I'd been holding out. "We
can get lushed enough on this."

Shannon has a good vocabulary. He used it. When he got his breath back
he said suddenly,

"Beamish is pulling some kind of a game."

"Yeah."

"It may be crooked."

"Sure. And he may be screwball and on the level. For Pete's sake!" I
yelled. "You want to sit here till we all dry up and blow away?"

Shannon looked at me, kind of funny. He looked at the bulge in my tunic
where the roll was. He raked back his thick light hair.

"Yeah," he said. "I hope there'll be enough left to bribe the jury." He
poked his head outside. "Hey, boy! More _thildatum_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was pretty late when we got back to the broken-down spaceport where
Shannon's Imperial Circus was crouching beneath its attachments. Late
as it was, they were waiting for us. About twenty of them, sitting
around and smoking and looking very ugly.

It was awfully lonesome out there, with the desert cold and restless
under the two moons. There's a smell to Mars, like something dead and
dried long past decay, but still waiting. An unhappy smell. The blown
red dust gritted in my teeth.

Bucky Shannon walked out into the glare of the light at the entrance to
the roped-off space around the main lock. He was pretty steady on his
feet. He waved and said, "Hiya, boys."

They got up off the steps, and the packing cases, and came toward us. I
grinned and got into my brassies. We felt we owed those boys a lot more
than money. It grates on a man's pride to have to sneak in and out of
his own property through the sewage lock. This was the first time in
weeks we'd come in at the front door.

I waved the money in their faces. That stopped them. Very solemnly,
Bucky and I checked the bills, paid them, and pocketed the receipts.
Bucky yawned and stretched sleepily.

"Now?" he said.

"Now," I said.

We had a lot of fun. Some of the boys inside the ship came out to join
in. We raised a lot of dust and nobody got killed, quite. We all went
home happy. They had their money, and we had their blood.

The news was all over the ship before we got inside. The freaks and the
green girl from Tethys who could roll herself like a hoop, and Zurt the
muscle man from Jupiter, and all the other assorted geeks and kinkers
and joeys that make up the usual corny carnie were doing nip-ups in the
passageways and drooling over the thought of steer and toppings.

Bucky Shannon regarded them possessively, wiping blood from his nose.
"They're good guys, Jig. Swell people. They stuck by me, and I've
rewarded them."

I said, "Sure," rather sourly. Bucky hiccoughed.

"Let's go see Gertrude."

I didn't want to see Gertrude. I never got over feeling funny going
into the brute tank, especially at night or out in space. I'm a city
guy, myself. The smell and sound of wildness gives me goose bumps. But
Bucky was looking stubborn, so I shrugged.

"Okay. But just for a minute. Then we go beddy-bye."

"You're a pal, Jif. Bes' li'l' guy inna worl'...."

The fight had just put the topper on him. I was afraid he'd fall down
the ladder and break his neck. That's why I went along. If I hadn't....
Oh, well, what's a few nightmares among friends?

It was dark down there in the tank. Way off at the other end, there was
a dim glow. Gow was evidently holding Gertrude's hand. We started down
the long passageway between the rows of cages and glassed-in tanks and
compression units.

Our footsteps sounded loud and empty on the iron floor. I wasn't
near as happy as Shannon, and my skin began to crawl a little. It's
the smell, I think; rank and sour and wild. And the sound of them,
breathing and rustling in the dark, with the patient hatred walled
around them as strong as the cage bars.

Bucky Shannon lurched against me suddenly. I choked back a yell, and
then wiped the sweat off my forehead and cursed. The scream came again.
A high, ragged, whistling screech like nothing this side of hell,
ripping through the musty darkness. Gertrude, on the wailing wall.

It had been quiet. Now every brute in the place let go at the same
time. My stomach turned clear over. I called Gertrude every name I
could think of, and I couldn't hear myself doing it. Presently a great
metallic clash nearly burst my eardrums, and the beasts shut up. Gow
had them nicely conditioned to that gong.

       *       *       *       *       *

But they didn't quiet down. Not really. They were uneasy. You can feel
them inside you when they're uneasy. I think that's why I'm scared of
them. They make me feel like I'm not human as I thought--like I wanted
to put my back-hair up and snarl. Yeah. They were uneasy that night,
all of a sudden....

Gow glared at us as we came up into the lantern light. "She's gettin'
worse," he said. "She's lonesome."

"That's tough," said Bucky Shannon. His grey-green eyes looked like an
owl's. He swayed slightly. "That's sure tough." He sniffled.

I looked at Gertrude. Her cage is the biggest and strongest in the tank
and even so she looked as though she could break it open just taking a
deep breath. I don't know if you've ever seen a _cansin_. There's only
two of them on the Triangle. If you haven't, nothing I can say will
make much difference.

They're what the brain gang calls an "end of evolution." Seems old
Dame Nature had an idea that didn't jell. The _cansins_ were pretty
successful for a while, it seems, but something gummed up the works and
now there's only a few left, way in the deep-swamp country, where even
the Venusians hardly ever go. Living fossils.

I wouldn't know, of course, but Gertrude looks to me like she got stuck
some place between a dinosaur and a grizzly bear, with maybe a little
bird blood thrown in. Anyway, she's big.

I couldn't help feeling sorry for her. She was crouched in the cage
with her hands--yeah, hands--hanging over her knees and her snaky head
sunk into her shoulders, looking out. Just looking. Not at anything.
Her eyes were way back in deep horny pits, like cold green fire.

The lantern light was yellow on her blue-black skin, but it made the
mane, or crest, of coarse wide scales that ran from between her eyes
clear down to her flat, short tail, burn all colors. She looked like
old Mother Misery herself, from way back before time began.

Gow said softly, "She wants a mate. And somebody better get her one."

Bucky Shannon sniffled again. I said irritably, "Be reasonable, Gow!
Nobody's ever seen a male _cansin_. There may not even be any."

Gertrude screamed again. She didn't move, not even to raise her head.
The sadness just built up inside her until it had to come out. That
close, the screech was deafening, and it turned me all limp and cold
inside. The loneliness, the sheer stark, simple pain....

Bucky Shannon began to cry. I snarled, "You'll have to snap her out of
this, Gow. She's driving the rest of 'em nuts."

He hammered on his gong, and things quieted down again. Gow stood
looking out over the tank, sniffing a little, like a hound. Then he
turned to Gertrude.

"I saved her life," he said. "When we bought her out of Hanak's wreck
and everybody thought she was too hurt to live, I saved her. I know
her. I can do things with her. But this time...."

He shrugged. He was huge and tough and ugly, and his voice was like a
woman's talking about a sick child.

"This time," he said, "I ain't sure."

"Well for Pete's sake, do what you can. We got a charter, and we need
her." I took Shannon's arm. "Come to bed, Bucky darlin'."

He draped himself over my shoulder and we went off. Gow didn't look at
us. Bucky sobbed.

"You were right, Jig," he mumbled. "Circus is no good. I know it. But
it's all I got. I love it, Jig. Unnerstan' me? Like Gow there with
Gertrude. She's ugly and no good, but he loves her. I love...."

"Sure, sure," I told him. "Stop crying down my neck."

We were a long way from the light, then. The cages and tanks loomed
high and black over us. It was still. The secret, uneasy motion all
around us and the scruffing of our feet only made it stiller.

Bucky was almost asleep on me. I started to slap him. And then the mist
rose up out of the darkness in little lazy coils, sparkling faintly
with blue, cold fire.

I yelled, "Gow! Gow, the Vapor snakes! Gow--for God's sake!"

I started to run, back along the passageway. Bucky weighed on me, limp
and heavy. The noise burst suddenly in a deafening hell of moans and
roars and shrieks, packed in tight by the metal walls, and above it all
I could hear Gertrude's lonely, whistling scream.

I thought, "_Somebody's down here. Somebody let 'em out. Somebody wants
to kill us!_" I tried to yell again. It strangled in my throat. I
sobbed, and the sweat was thick and cold on me.

One of Bucky's dragging, stumbling feet got between mine. We fell. I
rolled on top of him, covering his face, and buried my own face in the
hollow of his shoulder.

The first snake touched me. It was like a live wire, sliding along the
back of my neck. I screamed. It came down along my cheek, hunting my
mouth. There were more of them, burning me through my clothes.

Bucky moaned and kicked under me. I remember hanging on and thinking,
"This is it. This is it, and oh God, I'm scared!"

Then I went out.


                                  II

Kanza the Martian croaker, was bending over me when I woke up. His
little brown face was crinkled with laughter. He'd lost most of his
teeth, and he gummed _thak_-weed. It smelt.

"You pretty, Mis' Jig," he giggled. "You funny like hell."

He slapped some cold greasy stuff on my face. It hurt. I cursed him and
said, "Where's Shannon? How is he?"

"Mis' Bucky okay. You save life. You big hero, Mis' Jig. Mis' Gow come
nickuhtime get snakes. You hero. Haw! You funny like hell!"

I said, "Yeah," and pushed him away and got up. I almost fell down
a couple of times, but presently I made it to the mirror over the
washstand--I was in my own cell--and I saw what Kanza meant. The damned
snakes had done a good job. I looked like I was upholstered in Scotch
plaid. I felt sick.

Bucky Shannon opened the door. He looked white and grim, and there was
a big burn across his neck. He said:

"Beamish is here with his lawyer."

I picked up my shirt. "Right with you."

Kanza went out, still giggling. Bucky closed the door.

"Jig," he said, "those vapor worms were all right when we went in.
Somebody followed us down and let them out. On purpose."

I hurt all over. I growled, "With that brain, son, you should go far.
Nobody saw anything, of course?" Bucky shook his head.

"Question is, Jig, who wants to kill us, and why?"

"Beamish. He realizes he's been gypped."

"One hundred U.C.'s," said Bucky softly, "for a few lousy swampedge
mining camps. It stinks, Jig. You think we should back out?"

I shrugged. "You're the boss man. I'm only the guy that beats off the
creditors."

"Yeah," Bucky said reflectively. "And I hear starvation isn't a
comfortable death. Okay, Jig. Let's go sign." He put his hand on the
latch and looked at my feet. "And--uh--Jig, I...."

I said, "Skip it. The next time, just don't trip me up, that's all!"

We had a nasty trip to Venus. Gertrude kept the brute tank on edge,
and Gow, on the rare occasions he came up for air, went around looking
like a disaster hoping to happen. To make it worse, Zurt the Jovian
strong-man got hurt during the take-off, and the Mercurian cave-cat had
kittens.

Nobody would have minded that, only one of 'em had only four legs. It
lived just long enough to scare that bunch of superstitious dopes out
of their pants. Circus people are funny that way.

Shannon and I did a little quiet sleuthing, but it was a waste of time.
Anybody in the gang might have let those electric worms out on us. It
didn't help any to know that somebody, maybe the guy next to you at
dinner, was busy thinking ways to kill you. By the time we hit Venus, I
was ready to do a Brodie out the refuse chute.

Shannon set the crate down on the edge of Nahru, the first stop on our
itinerary. I stood beside him, looking out the ports at the scenery. It
was Venus, all right. Blue mud and thick green jungle and rain, and a
bunch of ratty-looking plastic shacks huddling together in the middle
of it. Men in slickers were coming out for a look.

I saw Beamish's sleek yacht parked on a cradle over to the left, and
our router's runabout beside it. Bucky Shannon groaned.

"A blue one, Jig. A morgue if I ever saw one!"

I snarled, "What do you want, with this lousy dog-and-pony show!" and
went out. He followed. The gang was converging on the lock, but they
weren't happy. You get so you can feel those things. The steamy Venus
heat was already sneaking into the ship.

While we passed the hatchway to the brute tank, I could hear Gertrude,
screaming.

       *       *       *       *       *

The canvasmen were busy setting up the annex, slopping and cursing in
the mud. The paste brigade was heading for the shacks. Shannon and I
stood with the hot rain running off our slickers, looking.

I heard a noise behind me and looked around. Ahra the Nahali woman was
standing in the mud with her arms up and her head thrown back, and her
triangular mouth open like a thirsty dog. She didn't have anything on
but her blue-green, hard scaled hide, and she was chuckling. It didn't
sound nice.

You find a lot of Nahali people in side-shows, doing tricks with
the electric power they carry in their own bodies. They're Venusian
middle-swampers, they're not human, and they never forget it.

Ahra opened her slitted red eyes and looked at me and laughed with
white reptilian teeth.

"Death," she whispered. "Death and trouble. The jungle tells me. I can
smell it in the swamp wind."

The hot rain sluiced over her. She shivered, and the pale skin under
her jaw pulsed like a toad's, and her eyes were red.

"The deep swamps are angry," she whispered. "Something has been taken.
They are angry, and I smell death in the wind!"

She turned away, laughing, and I cursed her, and my stomach was tight
and cold. Bucky said,

"Let's eat if they have a bar in this dump."

We weren't half way across the mud puddle that passed as a landing
field when a man came out of a shack on the edge of the settlement. We
could see him plainly, because he was off to one side of the crowd.

He fell on his knees in the mud, making noises. It took him three or
four tries to get our names out clear enough to understand.

Bucky said, "Jig--it's Sam Kapper."

We started to run. The crowd, mostly big unshaken miners, wheeled
around to see what was happening. People began to close in on the man
who crawled and whimpered in the mud.

Sam Kapper was a hunter, supplying animals to zoos and circuses and
carnivals. He'd given us good deals a couple of times, when we weren't
too broke, and we were pretty friendly.

I hadn't seen him for three seasons. I remembered him as a bronzed,
hard-bitten guy, lean and tough as a twist of tung wire. I felt sick,
looking down at him.

Bucky started to help him up. Kapper was crying, and he jerked all over
like animals I've seen that were scared to death. Some guy leaned over
and put a cigarette in his mouth and lighted it for him.

I was thinking about Kapper, then, and I didn't pay much attention. I
only caught a glimpse of the man's face as he straightened up. I didn't
realize until later that he looked familiar.

We got Kapper inside the shack. It turned out to be a cheap bar, with a
couple of curtained booths at the back. We got him into one and pulled
the curtain in a lot of curious faces. Kapper dragged hard on the
cigarette. The man that gave it to him was gone.

Bucky said gently, "Okay, Sam. Relax. What's the trouble?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kapper tried to straighten up. He hadn't shaved. The lean hard lines
of his face had gone slack and his eyes were bloodshot. He was covered
with mud, and his mouth twitched like a sick old man's.

He said thickly, "I found it. I said I'd do it, and I did. I found it
and brought it out."

The cigarette stub fell out of his mouth. He didn't notice it. "Help
me," he said simply. "I'm scared." His mouth drooled.

"I got it hidden. They want to find out, but I won't tell 'em. It's
got to go back. Back where I found it. I tried to take it, but they
wouldn't let me, and I was afraid they'd find it...."

He reached suddenly and grabbed the edge of the table. "I don't know
how they found out about it, but they did. I've got to get it back.
I've got to...."

Bucky looked at me. Kapper was blue around the mouth. I was scared,
suddenly. I said, "Get what back where?"

Bucky got up. "I'll get a doctor," he said. "Stick with him." Kapper
grabbed his wrist. Kapper's nails were blue and the cords in his hands
stood out like guy wires.

"Don't leave me. Got to tell you--where it is. Got to take it back.
Promise you'll take it back." He gasped and struggled over his
breathing.

"Sure," said Bucky. "Sure, well take it back. What is it?"

Kapper's face was horrible. I felt sick, listening to him fight for
air. I wanted to go for a doctor anyway, but somehow I knew it was no
use. Kapper whispered,

"_Cansin_. Male. Only one. You don't know...! Take him back."

"Where is it, Sam?"

I reached across Bucky suddenly and jerked the curtain back. Beamish
was standing there. Beamish, bent over, with his ear cocked. Kapper
made a harsh strangling noise and fell across the table.

Beamish never changed expression. He didn't move while Bucky felt
Kapper's pulse. Bucky didn't need to say anything. We knew.

"Heart?" said Beamish finally.

"Yeah," said Bucky. He looked as bad as I felt. "Poor Sam."

I looked at the cigarette stub smoldering on the table. I looked at
Beamish with his round dead baby face. I climbed over Shannon and
pushed Beamish suddenly down into his lap.

"Keep this guy here till I get back," I said.

Shannon stared at me. Beamish started to get indignant. "Shut up," I
told him. "We got a contract." I yanked the curtains shut and walked
over to the bar.

I began to notice something, then. There were quite a lot of men in the
place. At first glance they looked okay--a hard-faced, muscular bunch
of miners in dirty shirts and high boots.

Then I looked at their hands. They were dirty enough. But they never
did any work in a mine, on Venus or anywhere else.

The place was awfully quiet, for that kind of a place. The bartender
was a big pot-bellied swamp-edger with pale eyes and thick white hair
coiled up on top of his bullet head. He was not happy.

I leaned on the bar. "_Lhak_," I said. He poured it, sullenly, out of a
green bottle. I reached for it, casually.

"That guy we brought in," I said. "He sure has a skinful. Passed out
cold. What's he been spiking his drinks with?"

"_Selak_," said a voice in my ear. "As if you didn't know."

I turned. The man who had given Kapper the cigarette was standing
behind me. And I remembered him, then.

       *       *       *       *       *

Circus people get around a lot, and the Law supplies us with Wanted
sheets. I remembered this guy from the last batch they handed us on
Mars. Melak Thompson was his name, and he had a reputation.

He had a face you wouldn't forget. Dark and kind of handsome, with the
Dry-lander blood showing in the heavy bones and the tilted green eyes.
His mouth was smiling and brutal. He nodded at the booth.

"Let's take a walk," he said.

We took a walk. The men sitting at the dirty tables were still silent,
and still not miners. I began to sweat.

The booth was a little crowded with us all in there. I sat jammed up
against Sam Kapper's body. Bucky Shannon's grey-green eyes were sleepy,
and there was a vein beating on his forehead.

Beamish said to Melak, "Kapper's dead. Dead, without talking."

"That's tough." Melak shook his dark head. "We was gentle with him."

"Yeah," I said. Kapper had been a good guy, and I was mad. "Feed
anybody enough _selak_, and you can afford to be. It's a dirty death."

_Selak's_ made from a Venusian half-cousin of henbane, which is what
scopolamine comes from. It has a terrific effect on the heart. And
Kapper had simply torn himself apart trying to keep from talking while
he was under the influence.

Bucky Shannon made a slow, ugly move to get up. Beamish said,

"Sit down."

There was something in his voice and his bland blue eyes. Shannon sat
down. Melak was looking at Beamish, still grinning.

"Well," he said, "I guess your idea was pretty good after all."

I had a sudden inspiration. The burns were still sore on my body, and
Rapper's tortured face was close to mine, and I took a wild shot at
something I wasn't even sure I saw.

"Yeah," I said. "A swell idea. Why did you try so hard to butch it,
Melak?"

He stopped grinning. Beamish looked forward a little. My tongue stuck
in my mouth, but I managed to say.

"You get it, Bucky. A male _cansin_, Kapper said. The only one
in captivity, maybe even on Venus. Worth its weight in credit
slips. That's why Beamish was so happy to overpay us to get us out
here--because he thought Gertrude could find her boy friend fast, even
if Kapper didn't talk."

I turned to Melak again. "A swell idea. Why did you have those vapor
snakes turned loose on us? Did you think Kapper was enough?"

He struck me, pretty hard, across the mouth. My head banged back
against the booth wall and for a minute I couldn't see anything but
spangles of fire shooting around. I heard Beamish say, from a great
distance,

"How about it, Melak?"

It was awfully still in the booth. I swallowed some blood and blinked
my eyes clear enough to see Bucky Shannon poised across the table like
a bow starting to unbend. And suddenly, somewhere far off over the drum
of rain on the flimsy roof, there began to be noises.

I hadn't been comfortable up till then. I'm no Superman, nor one of
those guys you read about who can stare Death in the eye and shatter
him with a light laugh.

But all of a sudden I was afraid. Afraid so that all the fear I'd felt
before was nothing. And it was funny, too. I didn't know what it was,
then, but I knew what it wasn't. It wasn't Beamish or Melak or those
hard guys beyond the curtains, or even Kapper's body pressed up against
me.

I didn't know what it was. But I wanted to get down on the floor and
hide myself in a crack, like a cockroach.

       *       *       *       *       *

The others felt it, too. I remember the sweat standing out on Bucky
Shannon's forehead, and the sudden tightening of Beamish's jaw, and the
glitter in Melak's green eyes.

Beyond the curtains there was an uneasy stirring of feet. The confused,
distant noise grew louder. Somewhere, not very far away, a woman began
to scream.

Beamish said softly, "You dirty double-crossing rat." His face was
still dead-pan, only now it was like something beaten out of iron. His
hands were out of sight under the table.

Melak smiled. I could feel his body shift and tense beside me. "Sure,"
he said. "I double-crossed you. Why not? I planted a guy in the circus
hammer gang and he crawled in the sewage lock and tried to get these
punks. I'm glad now he bungled it. Kapper had guts."

Beamish whispered, "You're a fool. You don't know what you're playing
with. I've done research, and I do."

"Too bad you wasted the time," said Melak. "Because you're through."

He threw himself suddenly aside, lifting the table hard into Beamish.
The curtains ripped away and he rolled in them, twisting like a snake.
I yelled to Bucky and dropped flat. Beamish had drawn a gun under the
table. The blast of it seared my face.

The next second four heavy blasters spoke at once. Beamish's gun
dropped on the floor. Then it was quiet again, and I could hear the
woman screaming, outside in the beating rain.

Melak got up. "Sure I double-crossed you," he said softly. "Why should
I split with anybody? Nobody knows about it but us. Kapper couldn't
send word from the swamps when he caught it, and he couldn't send word
from here because he wasn't let.

"That critter'll bring anything I ask for it. Why should I split with
you?"

Beamish didn't answer. I don't think Melak thought he would.

The noise from outside was getting louder. Bucky groaned.

"It's coming from the pitch, Jig. Trouble. We've got to...."

The table was yanked from over us. We got up off our knees. Melak
looked at us. He was shaking a little and his green eyes were mean.

"I don't think," he said, "I really need you guys around, either." He
jerked his head suddenly. "Cripes, I wish that dame would shut up!"

It was getting on my nerves, too--that monotonous, sawing screech.
Melak stepped aside. "Get 'em, boys. I don't want 'em dragging their
outfit down on our necks."

Four blaster barrels came up. My insides came up with them. I was way
beyond anything, then--even panic.

Gow burst in through the doorway.

He was soaked to the skin, tattered, bleeding, and wild-eyed. He
yelled, "Boss! Gertrude...." Then he saw the guns and stopped.

It was very still in the place. Outside there was sound rising like a
sullen tide against the walls. The woman's screaming became something
not human, and then stopped, short.

Gow said, almost absently, "Gertrude went nuts. We'd brought her cage
up from the tank for the show and she--broke out. There wasn't nothin'
we could do. She busted a lot of cages and then disappeared."

Melak snarled something, I don't know what. The wall behind Gow jarred,
buckled, and split open around the doorway. Bamboo fragments clattered
on the floor. Somebody yelled, and a blaster went off.

Gertrude stood in the splintered opening. She looked at us with cold,
mad green eyes, towering huge and blue against the low roof, her hands
swinging and her crest erect.

She let go one wild, whistling screech and came straight toward the
booth. Bucky Shannon touched my arm.

"Climb into your brassies, kid," he muttered. "Here's our chance!"

I caught his shoulder. He followed the line of my pointing, and I felt
him tremble.

Gertrude was coming at us like a rocket express. Behind her wet and
glistening from the hot rain, came three more just like her.


                                  III

We scattered, all of us, hunting for a way out. There was only one door
leading to the back, and it was stoppered tight with men cursing and
fighting to get through. Gow was crouched in a corner by the splintered
wall.

I pulled Bucky along, thinking we might get in back of the _cansins_
and sneak out. I wondered what they wanted. And I wondered where in
heck you could hide a thing as big as Gertrude and keep anybody from
finding out.

Somebody screamed briefly. I saw one of the strange _cansins_ toss the
bartender aside like a dry twig. Gow rose up in front of me with a
queer staring look in his eyes.

"Somethin's wrong," he said. "All wrong. I...." His mouth twitched. He
turned sharply and started to scramble through the wrecked hall. Bucky
and I were right on his heels. I think Melak and some of his lobbygows
were crowding us, but nobody was thinking about things like that any
more.

I knew what was eating Gow. The fear that had looked out of Kapper's
eyes. The fear that was riding me. Fear that had nothing to do with
anything physical.

Bucky cursed and stumbled beside me. And suddenly the four _cansins_
let go a tremendous thundering scream. The hair rose on my neck, and I
turned to look. I just had to.

Gertrude had turned away from the booth. They stood, the four of
them, their huge black shoulders touching, their crests like rows of
petrified flame, staring at what Gertrude held in her arms.

It was Kapper's body.

Slowly, with infinite gentleness, she began to strip him. He hung loose
in the cradle of one great arm, his flesh showing blue-white against
her blueness. Her free hand ripped his clothes away like things made of
paper.

I don't know why nobody tried to shoot the beasts after the first
second. Sheer panic, I guess. We could have killed them all, then.
But we just stood looking, fascinated by the slow, intent baring of
Kapper's body.

And the strange fear. It was on us all.

Kapper lay naked in her black arms. She raised him slowly over her
head, her eyes blind green fires deep under bony brows. The others drew
closer, shivering, and I could hear them whimper.

Strangers from the deep swamps with no stink of man on them. I thought
of the Nahali woman laughing in the hot rain. Death from the deep
swamps, because something had been taken, and they were angry.

There was a little black box strapped to Kapper's thin white belly.

Gertrude shifted her hands a little. The blood hammered in my ears. I
was sick. I didn't want to look any more. I couldn't help it. Bucky
Shannon caught a hard, sobbing breath.

Gertrude broke Sam Kapper's body in two.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can still hear the noise it made. The blood ran dark and sluggish
down her arms. It worried me that Kapper's face didn't change
expression. The little black box on his belly split with the rest of
him.

Something rose out of it. Something no bigger than my forefinger that
carried a cold green blaze around it like a ball of St. Elmo's fire.

Gertrude threw Kapper away. I heard the two flopping thuds of him
hitting the floor. Some guy was down on his knees close to me. His lips
moved. I don't know if he could remember his prayers. Somebody else was
vomiting, hard. I wanted to, but my stomach felt frozen.

The cold green fire had a shape inside it. I couldn't make it out
clearly, except that it looked horribly human. It put out four thin
green filaments. Don't ask me if they were physical things like
tentacles, or just beams of light, or maybe thought. I don't know.
Whatever they were, they worked.

They connected with the four black, snaky heads of the female
_cansins_. I felt the shock of them connecting with my own nerves. And
it was like something had welded those four brutes together into one.

They had been four. Separate, with hard outlines. Now they were one.
One single interlocking entity. I guess it was just my being so scared
and sick, but I thought I saw their outlines blur a little.

Gow spoke suddenly. His voice was pretty loud, and calm.

"That was it," he said, as though it was the only thing in the world
that mattered. "They ain't complete by themselves. Like the _zurats_
back home on Mercury. They got a community brain. No wonder Gertrude
was lonesome."

His voice broke the spell. Somebody screamed, and everybody started to
move at once, clawing in blind panic for the openings. And we all knew,
then, what we were afraid of.

We were afraid of the little thing in the black box, the thing in a
cloak of fire that had risen from the ruins of Kapper's body, and the
power that lived in it.

I suppose we thought we were going to fight it, all right. But outside,
where we could breathe. Not in here, with the hugeness of the females
smothering us, penned in with the last male _cansin_ in creation.

I knew then why Kapper had broken, and why he hadn't told, in spite of
the _selak_. The thing hadn't let him. And it had called to its kind,
from the deep swamps and Buckhalter Shannon's Imperial Circus.

       *       *       *       *       *

The deep indigo night of Venus had settled down, in the smell of mud
and jungle and the hot rain. Lights flared crazily here and there out
of open doorways. People were yelling, the tight, animal mob-yell of
fear.

There was no place to run in Nahru. The jungle held it. The thick green
jungle built on quicksand and crawling with death. Behind us the four
_cansins_ raised a wild whistling screech.

It was answered, out of the hot night between the little shacks of
Nahru. Brute voices, singing their hate. Suddenly I remembered what Gow
had said. "_She busted a lot of cages...._"

God knew what was loose in that town.

Bucky Shannon spoke beside me. We were still running, slipping and
floundering in the mud, making toward the ship from sheer instinct. He
gasped,

"We got to get those babies rounded up. Gow! Gow, you hear me? We got
to get 'em back!"

Gow's voice came sullenly. "I hear you, boss." We slowed down. It was
suddenly important to hear what more Gow had to say.

"Don't you get it?" he asked slowly. "Gertrude let 'em out. She wanted
'em--to help her. They know it. They ain't going back."

Somewhere behind us a plastic shack cracked open like an eggshell.
Human cries were drowned in a whistling screech. Off to the right the
Mercurian cave-cat began to laugh like a crazy woman.

Slow, patient, animal hate, walled around them, waiting. The feel and
smell of hate in the brute tank. I could feel and smell it now, in
Nahru, only it wasn't patient and waiting any more.

The time it had waited for was here. Gertrude had set it free.

Shannon said, very softly, "Mother o' God, what are we going to do?"

"Get back to the ship. Get back and get out of here!"

I jumped. It was Melak's voice, sounding hard and ugly. Light spilling
out of a sagging door made a faint silhouette of him in the rain. He
held a blaster in his hand.

Shannon snarled, "Take off with half my gang stranded here? You go to
hell!"

Rockets blasted suddenly out on the landing field. Somebody had made it
to Beamish's yacht and gone. The runabout followed it. The circus ship
was still there, and the only one in Nahru.

I said, "We can't go. Not with a couple hundred credits' worth of
animals running loose in the town."

"Get on to the ship," said Melak. "Cripes, if I knew how to fly I'd
leave you here! Now move!"

Shannon was almost crying. He started to rush Melak. I caught him and
said, "Sure. Sure we'll move. All of us. Look behind you!"

"I was weaned on that one. Move!"

Well, it was his funeral.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was almost ours, too. Ganymedian puffballs move fast. They had come
out from between two shacks, skimming over the mud on their long white
cilia. There were three of them, rolled up in balls about the size of
my head. They didn't make any noise.

They came up behind Melak. Two of them unrolled suddenly, whipping
out into lean, fuzzy ropes about five feet long. They went around the
Martian 'breed. The third one came straight at me.

Melak made a noise that wasn't human and went down. The puffballs
tightened around him, pulsing a little with the pleasure of digestion.
Gow was on the other side of Melak, too far away, and unarmed.

I jumped, and the mud tripped me. Shannon fell the other way. The
puffball, strung out now like a fuzzy snake, paused a moment, not three
inches from my face. I lay still on my belly, choking on my heart.

Shannon moved, and it whipped down across his legs.

He screamed. I could feel the poison from the thing eating into him. I
got to my knees and he cursed me and raised something out of the mud.
It was Melak's blaster. He fired, between his feet.

The puffball shrivelled to a little stinking wire and dropped away.
Bucky said evenly,

"That pays me off. Now it's all your party, Jig."

He fainted. His legs were already swelling. Gow bent over him.

"He's gotta have the croaker, quick."

"You take him to the ship, Gow. If you can get there."

"Me? I'm the zoo-man. I oughta...."

"Do I look like Superman, to carry that big lug?" I didn't know why it
was so hard to talk. "Get him there. Then round up everybody left at
the ship. Get guns and ropes and torches and come back, quick!"

He nodded and got Bucky across his shoulders. I gave him the blaster.
Then I turned back. I knew where most of the circus gang would
be--spread out among the bars.

It was a lot darker, because now all the doors were closed, except two
or three where the people hadn't lived to close them. It was quieter,
too, because there's a limit to the noise a human throat can make.
There was just the hot rain, and the soft jungle undertone of things
padding and slithering in the mud, hunting.

Up the street somewhere the _cansins_ screamed, and another shack
split open. Instantly the brute clamor went up from the dark alleys,
answering. Animal legions from five different planets, led by a tiny
creature in a cloak of green fire. And man was the common enemy.

A pair of Martian sand-tigers shot out into the street ahead of me.
They were frolicking like kittens, playing with something dark and
tattered. Then they saw me and dropped it, and came sliding on their
bellies, their six powerful legs sucking in the mud.

There was no place to go. I don't remember being particularly scared,
but that wasn't because I was brave. It was sheer exhaustion. A guy can
only take so much. Now I was just walking around, seeing and hearing,
but not feeling anything inside. Like a guy that's coked to the ears,
or punchy from a beating.

I picked up a double handful of mud and slung it in their snarling
pusses, and threw my head back and yelled.

"Ha-a-y _Rube_!"

A door at my left opened three inches, daggering the rain with yellow
light. A voice said,

"For gossakes get in here!"

I picked up another handful of mud. The Martian cats were pawing the
last load out of their eyes. I gave them more to play with. I guess
they weren't very hungry, just then. I said,

"I'm going to get the _cansins_."

Just like that. I told you I was out on my feet. Clean nuts. The guy in
the doorway thought so too.

"Will you come in before you're too dead?"

"And wait around for those big apes to crack the house open over my
head? The hell with that." More mud sploshed in the cats' faces.
They were beginning to get sore. "The rest of the critters are just
following the _cansins_. Sort of a mopping-up brigade. Stop the
_cansins_, and we can round up the others easy."

"Oh, sure," said the man. "Any time before breakfast. Are you coming,
pal, or do I shut this door again?"

I don't know how it would have turned out. Probably I'd have wound up
inside the cats. But one of 'em let out a shrill, nasty wail, the kind
they give the trainer when they're challenging him to a finish fight,
and somebody came shouldering out past the man in the doorway.

The door swung wide, so that there was plenty of light. The six-inch
fangs on the Martian kitties were a beautiful, shining white. The
newcomer said something to the cats in a level undertone and came to me.

It was Jarin, the Titan who works the cats. He's about half my height,
metallic green in color, and faster on his feet than a rummy grabbing
the first drink. He looks like a walking barrel when he's folded up,
and like nothing on earth when he isn't.

He was unfolded then. He went up to the cats, light and dainty in the
mud. They were crouching uneasily, coughing and snarling, wanting to
rush him and not quite daring to.

The male sprang.


                                  IV

All I could see was a green blur in the rain. I heard the crisp, wicked
smacks of Jarin's tentacles on the tiger. It flopped over in mid-air,
buried its face in the mud and came up yowling, like your Aunt Minnie's
cat when you stepped on its tail.

It went away from there, fast, with its mate right behind it.

Jarin chuckled softly. "About the _cansins_," he hissed. "You had an
idea?"

Somewhere, quite close to us, there was the familiar sound of a plastic
shack going to pieces. I remembered hearing blasters rip occasionally.
But only Melak's hoods were armed with anything heavy enough to do any
good, and I guessed most of them had beat it to Beamish's yacht. A
_cansin_ has a hell of a tough hide, and their vitality is something
you wouldn't believe if you hadn't seen it.

The familiar whistling screech went up, and the babel of human screams
and the brute chorus from the rainy alleys. I think, right then, I
began to get scared. The fear began to seep through my dopey calm, like
pain in a new wound.

I shuddered and said, "No. No ideas."

There was a soft step in the mud behind me. I spun around, sweating.
Ahra the Nahali woman stood there, red-eyed and laughing.

"You are frightened," she whispered.

I didn't deny it.

"I can help you stop the _cansins_." Her eyes glittered like wet
rubies, and her teeth were white and sharp. "It may not work, and you
may die. Will you try it?"

She was daring me. She was hardly more human than the brutes
themselves, and she belonged with the rain and the hot indigo night.

I said, "You don't want to help, Ahra. You want us to die."

I could see the pale skin throbbing under her bony jaw. She laughed,
soft alien laughter that made my back hair stir and prickle.

"You humans," she whispered. "Trampling and spoiling. The middle swamps
have suffered you, greedy after oil and plumes and _ti_. But you we can
fight."

She jerked her round, glistening head toward the sound of destruction.
"The death from the deep swamps, no. You deserve to die, you humans.
You went meddling with something too big even for your pride. But
because the _cansins_ killed my mate and our first young...."

She hunched up. I thought she was going to flop on her belly like a
cayman in the mud. Her teeth gleamed, sharp and savage.

"Legend says the _cansins_ were once the wisest race on Venus. They
were worshipped as gods by the little pre-human creatures of the swamp
edges. They were going to be the reasoning lords of a planet.

"But nature made a mistake. Perhaps some mutation that couldn't be
stopped. I don't know. Anyway, the females grew until their one thought
was to find enough food. The males tried to balance this. Most of their
strength was in their minds, anyway. But they couldn't.

"The _cansins_ took to eating their worshippers. At the same time
the number of eggs they laid grew smaller and smaller. Finally the
swamp-edgers drove them out, back into the deep swamps.

"They've been there ever since, going farther and farther on the path
of evolution, dwindling in numbers, always hungry, and hating the
humans who robbed them of their future. Even us they hate, because we
go erect and have speech. The females are not independent. The male
controls the community mind--they must have unity to exist at all.

"If you could control the male...."

I thought of the little creature in the ball of green fire. I shivered,
and the pit of my stomach pinched up. I said, "Yeah? How?"

She chuckled at me. "It may mean death. Will you risk it?"

I didn't have to. I could beat it back to the ship, maybe even rescue
some of the gang, with Jarin's help. Then I thought about Bucky and the
way he cried down my neck that night in the tank and what would happen
to us if we didn't get the animals rounded up. I thought--oh, hell, why
does a guy ever do anything? I don't know. Maybe I thought I'd never
get across the field to the ship anyhow.

I said, "Spill it, you she-snake. What do I do?"

"Get Quern," she said, and went off through the hot rain, back into the
plastic shack. The door slammed shut. Jarin and I were alone in the
dark.

I said, "Will you help me?"

"Of course."

I looked down the street toward the landing field. I felt tired,
suddenly. Gone in the knees and weak, and sick to vomiting with fear.

"Here comes Gow," I said. "He's got seven or eight guys with guns. Just
keep the critters off us until we get through with the _cansins_, and
try not to kill any more than you can help."

Good old Jig, thinking about money even then. Gow came up. We talked a
minute, just the things that had to be said, and then I asked,

"Anybody have an idea where Quern might be?"

"Yeah," said Gow slowly. "He was in the ginmill next to the one we was
in. Drunk. I heard him singin' when I went by. I think the big apes
wrecked it."

       *       *       *       *       *

We started off up the muddy street, more as though we'd been wound up
to go somewhere and couldn't stop than like men with a purpose. The
_cansins_ were close. Awful close. You could hear them sucking and
slopping in the muck. The rain fell straight down, almost solid, and
the air was thick and hot.

We did a lot of shouting. Some men came out of the shacks to join us,
but nobody had seen Quern since the trouble started. We had trouble
with the animals in the streets. The vapor snakes got one man, and an
Ionian _hru_ poisoned one guy so bad he died the next day. We had to
kill a couple of big babies that wouldn't scare off.

And we found the ginmill. Gow was right. It was wrecked, and there were
things scattered around amongst the splinters. I was glad it was dark.

"Well," I said, "that's that. We'll just have to do what we can
with the blasters." It wouldn't be much. We didn't carry any heavy
artillery, and a _cansin_ is awfully hard to stop.

"Any you guys wanta scram, do it now. The rest of you come on."

I took a step. Something squirmed under my foot, squeaked, and began to
curse in a voice like a katydid's.

"My God," I said. "It's Quern."

I picked him up. His rubbery little body was slick with mud. He spat
and hiccoughed, and snarled,

"Of course it's Quern. Fine thing, leaving me in the mud like that. I
might ha' drowned." He started cursing again in Low Martian, which is
his native tongue. He's a Diran from the sea-bottom pits of Shun.

Somebody laughed. It sounded hysterical. "The little lush! He don't
even know what's happened!"

And he didn't. The _cansins_ hadn't even seen him. He'd just been
tromped into the mud and left there, unharmed.

Gow caught his breath suddenly, and somebody whimpered. I looked up. I
couldn't see much, in the rain and the indigo dark, but I didn't have
to see. I knew what was coming.

A little vicious splotch of living green against the darkness, and
underneath it four huge shadows, trampling knee-deep in mud, making
toward a plastic hut filled with human beings.

I said softly, "Quern, I never thought you were such a hell of a
wonderful hypnotist."

He twinged in my hands. His anger almost burned me. He started to
speak, but I stopped him.

"Here's your chance to prove it, chum. See that little green light
floating there? Well, go to it, Quern. And it had better be good, or
it's curtains--for Nahru and all of us."

I walked over toward the _cansins_, holding Quern in my hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

The brutes must have sensed us. They stopped and wheeled around. Quern
shivered. He was beginning to understand things. He snarled,

"How do you expect me to do my act? No platform--nothing! You're crazy,
Jig! Let's get out of here!"

I shook him. "Put that baby to sleep. Make him and his harem go out of
town, north. There's quicksand there. Go on, damn you!"

He cursed me. You could smell the fear rising hot from us all. I heard
feet running behind me, and then more, going away. Quern said,

"All right, you crazy fool. Raise me up. Hold your hands flat."

I made a platform out of my palms. And the _cansins_ started our way.

Gow whispered, "Don't shoot. Don't anybody shoot." I don't think he
knew then, that there wasn't anybody left to shoot but himself and
Jarin.

The _cansins_ were huge and solid, behemoths carved from the night.
They towered over us, and the green light pulsed. My jaw hung open and
I couldn't breathe, and I'd have run only my joints were all water.

Quern went into his act.

He began to show color. Out of nothing his body started to glow,
from inside. You could see the round blurred shape of him, and the
phosphorescence of his guts, showing through. First red, savage as a
punch in the face, and then all the rest of the spectrum, sometimes one
color, sometimes a swirl of them.

His body changed shape. I could feel the queer rubbery movement of it
on my hands. I remembered the rubes I'd seen standing around Quern's
platform, their eyes drawn half out of their heads by the shifting
lines and colors. It worked with them. But not here.

The _cansins_ came on. The green light flared a little brighter, and
that was all. Habit and control were so strong that not even the
females paid much attention to Quern. I could see the rain smoking off
their huge black shoulders. They were right on top of us.

Quern gasped, "I can't do it!" His glow deadened. I shook him. I yelled,

"I knew you were a phony! You two-bit yentzer! Jarin, slow 'em down,
can't you?"

Quern began to shimmer again. Jarin faded in, hardly visible in the
darkness. I heard his tentacles whiplashing across hard flesh.

One of the _cansins_ screamed. The green light did a sharp dip and
swirl. And I yelled,

"Gow! Speak to Gertrude!"

The terrifying forward march slowed a little. Quern was churning colors
out of his guts as though his life depended on it--which it did. Gow
stepped forward a little.

"Gertrude," he said. "Gertrude, you ugly, slab-sided, left-handed--"

He cursed her, affectionately. I never heard anything like his voice. I
wanted to cry. In Quern's faint hypnotic glow I saw the green eyes of
the nearest female watching, looking wide and queer.

The male was angry, now. Angry and scared. You could tell by the
vicious brightness of him. We decided afterward that his light was the
same kind a glow-worm carries around, only stronger. He was fighting.
Fighting to hold those four minds against the attraction of Quern's
shifting glow.

He'd have done it, too, if it hadn't been for Gow. Gow, standing in the
hot rain and cursing Gertrude with tears in his voice.

Gertrude screamed. Suddenly, for no reason, a strange uncertain cry.
She moved. A sort of shudder ran through the other three. It was a
little like a wall cracking. The male burned savagely.

The females were watching Quern, now. Gertrude had made the breach.
Now the community mind was fastened on the hypnotic little Martian. I
could see their green eyes, wide and glassy, their snaky heads nodding
a little, trying to follow the flowing outlines.

The male began to dim. He shivered, and lurched a couple of times,
still trying to fight. Gow's voice went on, hoarsely, and Gertrude
whimpered. The male floated a little closer. I could see, suddenly,
what kept him up. Wings, like a hummingbird's, blurred with motion.

They slowed, and the green light dimmed. He began to bob a little in
the hot rain, watching Quern.

Quern shivered. "They're under," he sighed. "They're under."

"Send them out. North, to the quicksands." My arms and shoulders ached
and I was swaying on my feet. I hardly heard Quern's thin, dreamy
voice. I did hear the slow, obedient noise of their great feet slogging
away, the last male _cansin_ a dull green mote above them.

And I heard Gow crying.

       *       *       *       *       *

We got the last of the animals back by noon of the next day. We did
what we could for Nahru. Thank God our own beasts hadn't done much
damage. We left a lot of Beamish's credits to help out, and took the
old tub off away from there.

Bucky Shannon recovered nicely. I'm still herding his Imperial Washout
around the Triangle. We're not doing so hot without Gertrude, but what
the hell--we're used to the sewage lock.

And if anyone has a _cansin_ he wants to sell.... Thanks, chum, but
we're not in the market. Now, or ever.

I sometimes wonder if there are any more of them in the deep swamps,
waiting for their mate to come back.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Blue Behemoth, by Leigh Brackett

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BLUE BEHEMOTH ***

***** This file should be named 62349.txt or 62349.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/3/4/62349/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
