The Project Gutenberg EBook of Conspiracy on Callisto, by James MacCreigh

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Conspiracy on Callisto

Author: James MacCreigh

Release Date: June 25, 2020 [EBook #62476]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONSPIRACY ON CALLISTO ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        Conspiracy on Callisto

                          By JAMES MacCREIGH

            Revolt was flaring on Callisto, and Peter Duane
            held the secret that would make the uprising a
            success or failure. Yet he could make no move,
             could favor no side--his memory was gone--he
                    didn't know for whom he fought.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Duane's hand flicked to his waist and hung there, poised. His dis-gun
remained undrawn.

The tall, white-haired man--Stevens--smiled.

"You're right, Duane," he said. "I could blast you, too. Nobody would
win that way, so let's leave the guns where they are."

The muscles twitched in Peter Duane's cheeks, but his voice, when it
came, was controlled. "Don't think we're going to let this go," he
said. "We'll take it up with Andrias tonight. We'll see whether you can
cut me out!"

The white-haired man's smile faded. He stepped forward, one hand
bracing him against the thrust of the rocket engines underneath,
holding to the guide rail at the side of the ship's corridor.

He said, "Duane, Andrias is your boss, not mine. I'm a free lance; I
work for myself. When we land on Callisto tonight I'll be with you when
you turn our--shall I say, our _cargo_?--over to him. And I'll collect
my fair share of the proceeds. That's as far as it goes. I take no
orders from him."

A heavy-set man in blue appeared at the end of the connecting corridor.
He was moving fast, but stopped short when he saw the two men.

"Hey!" he said. "Change of course--get to your cabins." He seemed about
to walk up to them, then reconsidered and hurried off. Neither man paid
any attention.

Duane said, "Do I have to kill you?" It was only a question as he asked
it, without threatening.

A muted alarm bell sounded through the P.A. speakers, signaling a
one-minute warning. The white-haired man cocked his eyebrow.

"Not at all," he said. He took the measure of his slim, red-headed
opponent. Taller, heavier, older, he was still no more uncompromisingly
belligerent than Duane, standing there. "Not at all," he repeated.
"Just take your ten thousand and let it go at that. Don't make trouble.
Leave Andrias out of our private argument."

"Damn you!" Duane flared. "I was promised fifty thousand. I need that
money. Do you think--"

"Forget what I think," Stevens said, his voice clipped and angry. "I
don't care about fairness, Duane, except to myself. I've done all the
work on this--I've supplied the goods. My price is set, a hundred
thousand Earth dollars. What Andrias promised you is no concern of
mine. The fact is that, after I've taken my share, there's only ten
thousand left. That's all you get!"

Duane stared at him a long second, then nodded abruptly. "I was right
the first time," he said. "I'll _have_ to kill you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Already his hand was streaking toward the grip of his dis-gun, touching
it, drawing it forth. But the white-haired man was faster. His arms
swept up and pinioned Duane, holding him impotent.

"Don't be a fool," he grated. "Duane--"

The P.A. speaker rattled, blared something unintelligible. Neither man
heard it. Duane lunged forward into the taller man's grip, sliding down
to the floor. The white-haired man grappled furiously to keep his hold
on Peter's gun arm, but Peter was slipping away. Belatedly, Stevens
went for his own gun.

He was too late. Duane's was out and leveled at him.

"_Now_ will you listen to reason?" Duane panted. But he halted, and the
muzzle of his weapon wavered. The floor swooped and surged beneath him
as the thrust of the mighty jets was cut off. Suddenly there was no
gravity. The two men, locked together, floated weightlessly out to the
center of the corridor.

"Course change!" gasped white-haired Stevens. "Good God!"

The ship had reached the midpoint of its flight. The bells had sounded,
warning every soul on it to take shelter, to strap themselves in their
pressure bunks against the deadly stress of acceleration as the ship
reversed itself and began to slow its headlong plunge into Callisto.
But the two men had not heeded.

The small steering rockets flashed briefly. The men were thrust
bruisingly against the side of the corridor as the rocket spun lazily
on its axis. The side jets flared once more to halt the spin, when the
one-eighty turn was completed, and the men were battered against the
opposite wall, still weightless, still clinging to each other, still
struggling.

Then the main-drive bellowed into life again, and the ship began to
battle against its own built-up acceleration. The corridor floor rose
up with blinking speed to smite them--

And the lights went out in a burst of crashing pain for Peter Duane.

       *       *       *       *       *

Someone was talking to him. Duane tried to force an eye open to see who
it was, and failed. Something damp and clinging was all about his face,
obscuring his vision. But the voice filtered in.

"Open your mouth," it said. "Please, Peter, open your mouth. You're all
right. Just swallow this."

It was a girl's voice. Duane was suddenly conscious that a girl's light
hand was on his shoulder. He shook his head feebly.

The voice became more insistent. "Swallow this," it said. "It's only a
stimulant, to help you throw off the shock of your--accident. You're
all right, otherwise."

Obediently he opened his mouth, and choked on a warm, tingly liquid.
He managed to swallow it, and lay quiet as deft feminine hands did
something to his face. Suddenly light filtered through his closed
eyelids, and cool air stirred against his damp face.

He opened his eyes. A slight red-headed girl in white nurse's uniform
was standing there. She stepped back a pace, a web of wet gauze bandage
in her hands, looking at him.

"Hello," he whispered. "You--where am I?"

"In the sick bay," she said. "You got caught out when the ship changed
course. Lucky you weren't hurt, Peter. The man you were with--the old,
white-haired one, Stevens--wasn't so lucky. He was underneath when the
jets went on. Three ribs broken--his lung was punctured. He died in the
other room an hour ago."

Duane screwed his eyes tight together and grimaced. When he opened
them again there was alertness and clarity in them--but there was also
bafflement.

"Girl," he said, "who are you? Where am I?"

"Peter!" There was shock and hurt in the tone of her voice. "I'm--don't
you know me, Peter?"

Duane shook his head confusedly. "I don't know anything," he said.
"I--I don't even know my own name."

"Duane, Duane," a man's heavy voice said. "That won't wash. Don't play
dumb on me."

"Duane?" he said. "Duane...." He swiveled his head and saw a dark,
squat man frowning at him. "Who are you?" Peter asked.

The dark man laughed. "Take your time, Duane," he said easily. "You'll
remember me. My name's Andrias. I've been waiting here for you to wake
up. We have some business matters to discuss."

The nurse, still eyeing Duane with an odd bewilderment, said: "I'll
leave you alone for a moment. Don't talk too much to him, Mr. Andrias.
He's still suffering from shock."

"I won't," Andrias promised, grinning. Then, as the girl left the room,
the smile dropped from his face.

"You play rough, Duane," he observed. "I thought you'd have trouble
with Stevens. I didn't think you'd find it necessary to put him out of
the way so permanently. Well, no matter. If you had to kill him, it's
no skin off my nose. Give me a release on the merchandise. I've got
your money here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Duane waved a hand and pushed himself dizzily erect, swinging his legs
over the side of the high cot. A sheet had been thrown over him, but he
was fully dressed. He examined his clothing with interest--gray tunic,
gray leather spaceman's boots. It was unfamiliar.

He shook his head in further confusion, and the motion burst within his
skull, throbbing hotly. He closed his eyes until it subsided, trying to
force his brain to operate, to explain to him where and what he was.

He looked at the man named Andrias.

"Nobody seems to believe me," he said, "but I really don't know what's
going on. Things are moving too fast for me. Really, I--why, I don't
even know my own name! My head--it hurts. I can't think clearly."

Andrias straightened, turned a darkly-suspicious look on Duane. "Don't
play tricks on me," he said savagely. "I haven't time for them. I won't
mince words with you. Give me a release on the cargo now, before I have
to get rough. This is a lot more important to me than your life is."

"Go to hell," Duane said shortly. "I'm playing no tricks."

There was an instant's doubt in Andrias' eyes, then it flashed away. He
bent closer, peered at Duane. "I almost think--" he began.

Then he shook his head. "No," he said. "You're lying all right. You
killed Stevens to get his share--and now you're trying to hold me up.
That's your last chance that just went by, Duane. From now on, I'm
running this show!"

He spun around and strode to the door, thrust it open. "Dakin!" he
bellowed. "Reed!"

Two large, ugly men in field-gray uniforms, emblazoned with the
shooting-star insignia of Callisto's League police, came in, looking to
Andrias for instructions.

"Duane here is resisting arrest," Andrias said. "Take him along. We'll
fix up the charges later."

"You can't do that," Duane said wearily. "I'm sick. If you've got
something against me, save it. Wait till my head clears. I'm sure I can
explain--"

"Explain, hell." The dark man laughed. "If I wait, this ship will be
blasting off for Ganymede within two hours. I'll wait--but so will the
ship. It's not going anywhere till I give it clearance. I run Callisto;
I'll give the orders here!"


                                  II

Whoever this man Andrias was, thought Duane, he was certainly a man of
importance on Callisto. As he had said, _he_ gave the orders.

The crew of the rocket made no objection when Andrias and his men took
Duane off without a word. Duane had thought the nurse, who seemed a
good enough sort, might have said something on his behalf. But she was
out of sight as they left. A curt sentence to a gray-clad official on
the blast field where the rocket lay, and the man nodded and hurried
off, to tell the rocket's captain that the ship was being refused
clearance indefinitely.

A long, powerful ground car slid up before them. Andrias got in front,
while the two uniformed men shoved Duane into the back of the car,
climbed in beside him. Andrias gave a curt order, and the car shot
forward.

The driver, sitting beside Andrias, leaned forward and readied a hand
under the dashboard. The high wail of a siren came instantly from the
car's roof, and what traffic was on the broad, straight highway into
which they had turned pulled aside to let them race through.

Ahead lay the tall spires of a city. Graceful, hundreds of feet high,
they seemed dreamlike yet somehow oddly familiar to Duane. Somewhere
he had seen them before. He dragged deep into his mind, plumbing the
cloudy, impenetrable haze that had settled on it, trying to bring forth
the memories that he should have had. Amnesia, they called it; complete
forgetting of the happenings of a lifetime. He'd heard of it--but never
dreamed it could happen to him!

_My name, it seems, is Peter Duane_, he thought. _And they tell me that
I killed a man!_

The thought was starkly incredible to him. A white-haired man, it had
been; someone named Stevens. He tried to remember.

Yes, there had been a white-haired man. And there had been an argument.
Something to do with money, with a shipment of goods that Stevens had
supplied to Duane. There has even been talk of killing....

But--murder! Duane looked at his hands helplessly.

Andrias, up ahead, was turning around. He looked sharply at Duane, for
a long second. An uncertainty clouded his eyes, and abruptly he looked
forward again without speaking.

"Who's this man Andrias?" Duane whispered to the nearest guard.

The man stared at him. "Governor Andrias," he said, "is the League's
deputy on Callisto. You know--the Earth-Mars League. They put Governor
Andrias here to--well, to govern for them."

"League?" Duane asked, wrinkling his brow. He had heard something about
a League once, yes. But it was all so nebulous....

The other guard stirred, leaned over. "Shut up," he said heavily.
"You'll have plenty of chance for talking later."

       *       *       *       *       *

But the chance was a long time in coming. Duane found himself, an hour
later, still in the barred room into which he'd been thrust. The guards
had brought him there, at Andrias' order, and left him. That had been
all.

This was not a regular jail, Duane realized. It was more like a
palace, something out of Earth's Roman-empire days, all white stone
and frescoed walls. Duane wished for human companionship--particularly
that of the nurse. Of all the people he'd met since awakening in that
hospital bed, only she seemed warm and human. The others were--brutal,
deadly. It was too bad, Duane reflected, that he'd failed to remember
her. She'd seemed hurt, and she had certainly known him by first name.
But perhaps she would understand.

Duane sat down on a lumpy, sagging bed and buried his head in his
hands. Dim ghosts of memory were wandering in his mind. He tried to
conjure them into stronger relief, or to exorcise them entirely.

Somewhere, some time, a man had said to him, "_Andrias is secretly
arming the Callistan cutthroats for revolt against the League. He wants
personal power--he's prepared to pay any price for it. He needs guns,
Earth guns smuggled in through the League patrol. If he can wipe out
the League police garrison--those who are loyal to the League, still,
instead of to Andrias--he can sit back and laugh at any fleet Earth and
Mars can send. Rockets are clumsy in an atmosphere. They're helpless.
And if he can arm enough of Callisto's rabble, he can't be stopped.
That's why he'll pay for electron rifles with their weight in gold._"

Duane could remember the scene clearly. Could almost see the sharp,
aquiline face of the man who had spoken to him. But there memory
stopped.

A fugitive recollection raced through his mind. He halted it, dragged
it back, pinned it down....

They had stopped in Darkside, the spaceport on the side of Luna that
keeps perpetually averted from Earth, as if the moon knows shame and
wants to hide the rough and roaring dome city that nestles in one
of the great craters. Duane remembered sitting in a low-ceilinged,
smoke-heavy room, across the table from a tall man with white hair.
Stevens!

"_Four thousand electron rifles_," the man had said. "_Latest
government issue. Never mind how I got them; they're perfect. You know
my price. Take it or leave it. And it's payable the minute we touch
ground on Callisto._"

There had been a few minutes of haggling over terms, then a handshake
and a drink from a thin-necked flagon of pale-yellow liquid fire.

He and the white-haired man had gone out then, made their way by
unfrequented side streets to a great windowless building. Duane
remembered the white-hot stars overhead, shining piercingly through
the great transparent dome that kept the air in the sealed city of
Darkside, as they stood at the entrance of the warehouse and spoke in
low tones to the man who answered their summons.

Then, inside. And they were looking at a huge chamber full of stacked
fiber boxes--containing nothing but dehydrated dairy products and
mining tools, by the stencils they bore. Duane had turned to the
white-haired man with a puzzled question--and the man had laughed aloud.

He dragged one of the boxes down, ripped it open with the sharp point
of a handling hook. Short-barreled, flare-mouthed guns rolled out,
tumbling over the floor. Eight of them were in that one box, and
hundreds of boxes all about. Duane picked one up, broke it, peered into
the chamber where the tiny capsule of U-235 would explode with infinite
violence when the trigger was pulled, spraying radiant death three
thousand yards in the direction the gun was aimed....

And that memory ended.

Duane got up, stared at his haggard face in the cracked mirror over
the bed. "_They say I'm a killer_," he thought. "_Apparently I'm a
gun-runner as well. Good lord--what am I not?_"

His reflection--white, drawn face made all the more pallid by the red
hair that blazed over it--stared back at him. There was no answer
there. If only he could remember--

"All right, Duane." The deep voice of a guard came to him as the door
swung open. "Stop making eyes at yourself."

Duane looked around. The guard beckoned. "Governor Andrias wants to
speak to you--now. Let's not keep the governor waiting."

       *       *       *       *       *

A long, narrow room, with a long carpet leading from the entrance up to
a great heavy desk--that was Andrias' office. Duane felt a click in his
memory as he entered. One of the ancient Earth dictators had employed
just such a psychological trick to overawe those who came to beg favors
of him. Muslini, or some such name.

The trick failed to work. Duane had other things on his mind; he walked
the thirty-foot length of the room, designed to imbue him with a sense
of his own unimportance, as steadily as he'd ever walked in the open
air of his home planet.

Whichever planet that was.

The guard had remained just inside the door, at attention. Andrias
waved him out.

"Here I am," said Duane. "What do you want?"

Andrias said, "I've had the ship inspected and what I want is on it.
That saves your life, for now. But the cargo is in your name. I could
take it by force, if I had to. I prefer not to." He picked up a paper,
handed it to Duane. "In spite of your behavior, you can keep alive.
You can even collect the money for the guns--Stevens' share as well
as your own. This is a release form, authorizing my men to take four
hundred and twenty cases of dehydrated foods and drilling supplies from
the hold of the _Cameroon_--the ship you came on. Sign it, and we'll
forget our argument. Only, sign it now and get it over with. I'm losing
patience, Duane."

Duane said, without expression, "No."

Dark red flooded into Andrias' sallow face. His jaws bunched angrily
and there was a ragged thread of incomplete control to his voice as he
spoke.

"I'll have your neck for this, Duane," he said softly.

Duane looked at the man's eyes. Death was behind them, peeping out.
Mentally he shrugged. What difference did it make?

"Give me the pen," he said shortly.

Andrias exhaled a deep breath. You could see the tension leave him, the
mottled anger fade from his face and leave it without expression. He
handed the paper to Duane without a word. He gave him a pen, watched
him scrawl his name.

"That," he said, "is better." He paused a moment ruminatively. "It
would have been better still if you'd not stalled me so long. I find
that hard to forgive in my associates."

"The money," Peter said. If he were playing a part--pretending he knew
what he was doing--he might as well play it to the hilt. "When do I get
it?"

Andrias picked up the paper and looked carefully at the signature. He
creased it thoughtfully, stowed it in a pocket before answering.

"Naturally," he said, "there will have to be a revision of terms. I
offered a hundred and ten thousand Earth-dollars. I would have paid
it--but you made me angry. You'll have to pay for that."

       *       *       *       *       *

Duane said, "I've paid already. I've been dragged from pillar to post
by you. That's enough. Pay me what you owe me, if you want any more of
the same goods!"

That was a shot in the dark--and it missed the mark.

Andrias' eyes widened. "You amaze me, Duane," he said. He rose and
stepped around the desk, confronting Duane. "I almost think you really
have lost your memory, Duane," he said. "Otherwise, surely you would
know that this is all the rifles I need. With them I'll _take_ whatever
else I want!"

Duane said, "You're ready, then...."

He took time to think it over, but he knew that no thought was
required. Already the hands that he had locked behind him were
clenched, taut. Already the muscles of his legs were tensing.

"You're ready," he repeated. "You've armed the Callistan exiles--the
worst gutter scum on nine planets. You're set to betray the League that
gave you power here.... Well, that changes things. I can't let you do
it!"

He hurled himself at Andrias, hands sweeping around to grapple for the
dark man's throat. Andrias, off-balance, staggered backward. But his
own hands were diving for the twin heat guns that hung at his waist.

Duane saw his danger, and reacted. His foot twisted around Andrias'
ankle; his hands at the other's throat gripped tighter. He lunged
forward, slamming the hard top of his head into the other's face,
feeling flesh and cartilage give as Andrias' nose mashed flat. His own
head pin-wheeled dizzily, agonizingly, as the jar revived the pain of
his earlier accident.

But Andrias, unconscious already, tumbled back with Duane on top of
him. His head made an audible, spine-chilling thud as it hit the
carpeted floor.

Duane got up, retrieving the two heat guns, and stared at him.

"_They tell me I killed Stevens the same way_," he thought. "_I'm
getting in a rut!_"

But Andrias was not dead, though he was out as cold as the void beyond
Pluto. The thick carpeting had saved him from a broken head.

Duane stepped over the unconscious man and looked around the room. It
was furnished severely, to the point of barrenness. Two chairs before
Andrias' ornate, bare-topped desk and one luxurious chair behind it;
a tasseled bell cord within easy reach of Andrias' chair; the long
carpet. That was all it contained.

The problem of getting out was serious, he saw. How could one--


                                  III

Methodically he ransacked the drawers of Andrias' desk. Papers, a
whole arsenal of hand guns, Callistan money by the bale, ominously
black-covered notebooks with cryptic figures littering their
pages--those were the contents. A coldly impersonal desk, without the
familiar trivia most men accumulate. There was nothing, certainly, that
would get him out of a building that so closely resembled a fortress.

He tumbled the things back into the drawers helter-skelter, turned
Andrias over and searched his pockets. More money--the man must have
had a fortune within reach at all times--and a few meaningless papers.
Duane took the release he had signed and tore it to shreds. But that
was only a gesture. When Andrias came to, unless Duane had managed to
get away and accomplish something, the mere lack of written permission
would not keep him from the rocket's lethal cargo!

When Andrias came to....

An idea bloomed in Duane's brain. He looked, then, at unconscious
Andrias--and the idea withered again.

He had thought of forcing Andrias himself to front for him, at gun's
point, in the conventional manner of escaping prisoners. But fist
fights, fiction to the contrary notwithstanding, leave marks on the men
who lose them. Andrias' throat was speckled with the livid marks of
Duane's fingers; Duane's head, butting Andrias in the face, had drawn a
thick stream of crimson from his nostrils, turned his sharp nose askew.

No guard of Andrias' would have been deceived for an instant, looking
at that face--even assuming that Andrias could have been forced to
cooperate by the threat of a gun. Which, considering the stake Andrias
had in this play, was doubtful....

He stood up and looked around. He had to act quickly. Already Andrias'
breath was audible; he saw the man grimace and an arm flopped
spasmodically on the floor. Consciousness was on its way back.

Duane touched the heat gun he'd thrust into his belt; drew it and held
it poised, while he sought to discover what was in his own mind. He'd
killed a man already, they said. Was he then a killer--could he shoot
Andrias now, in cold blood, with so much to gain and nothing to lose?

He stood there a moment. Then, abruptly, he reversed the weapon and
chopped it down on Andrias' skull.

There was a sharp grunt from the still unconscious man, but no other
sign. Only--the first tremors of movement that had shown on him halted,
and did not reappear.

"_No_," Duane thought. "_Whatever they say, I'm not a killer!_"

But still he had to get out. How?

Once more he stared around the room, catalogued its contents. The guard
would be getting impatient. Perhaps any minute he would tap the door,
first timorously, then with heavier strokes.

The guard! There was a way!

       *       *       *       *       *

Duane eyed the length of the room. Thirty feet--it would take him a
couple of seconds to run it at full speed. Was that fast enough?

There was only one way to find out.

He walked around the desk to the bell cord. He took a deep breath,
tugged it savagely, and at once was in speedy motion, racing toward the
door, his footsteps muffled in the deep, springy carpet. Almost as he
reached it, he saw it begin to open. He quickly sidestepped and was out
of the guard's sight, behind the door, as the man looked in.

Quick suspicion flared in his eyes, then certainty as he saw Andrias
huddled on the floor. He opened his mouth to cry out--

But Duane's arm was around his throat, and he had no breath to spare.
Duane's foot lashed out and the door slammed shut; Duane's balled left
fist came up and connected with the guard's chin. Abruptly the man
slumped.

Duane took a deep breath and let the man drop to the floor. But he
paused only a second; now he had two unconscious men on his hands and
he dared let neither revive until he was prepared.

He grasped the guard's arm and dragged him roughly the length of the
room. He leaped on top of the desk, brutally scarring its gleaming top
with the hard spikes of his boots. His agile fingers unfastened the
long bell cord without causing it to ring and, bearing it, he dropped
again to the floor.

Tugging and straining, he got the limp form of Andrias into his own
chair, bound him with the bell cord, gagged him with the priceless
Venus-wool scarf Andrias wore knotted about his throat. He tested his
bindings with full strength, and smiled. Those would hold, let Andrias
struggle as he would.

The guard he stripped of clothing, bound and gagged with his own
belt and spaceman's kerchief. He dragged him around behind the desk,
thrust him under it out of sight. Andrias' chair he turned so that the
unconscious face was averted from the door. Should anyone look in,
then, the fact of Andrias' unconsciousness might not be noticed.

Then he took off his own clothes, quickly assumed the field-gray
uniform of the guard. It fit like the skin of a fruit. He felt himself
bulging out of it in a dozen places. The long cape the guard wore would
conceal that, perhaps. In any case, there was nothing better.

Trying to make his stride as martial as possible, he walked down the
long carpet to the door, opened it and stepped outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

His luck couldn't hold out forever. It was next to miraculous that he
got as far as he did--out of the anteroom before Andrias' office, past
the two guards there, who eyed him absently but said nothing, down the
great entrance hall, straight out the front door.

Going through the city had been easier, of course. There were many men
in uniforms like his. Duane thought, then, that Andrias' power could
not have been too strong, even over the League police whom he nominally
commanded. The police could not all have been corrupt. There were too
many of them; had they been turncoats, aiding Andrias in his revolt
against the League, there would have been no need to smuggle rifles in
for an unruly mass of civilians.

Duane cursed the lack of foresight of the early Earth governments.
They'd made a prison planet of Callisto; had filled it with the worst
scum of Earth. Then, when the damage had been done--when Callisto had
become a pest-hole among the planets; its iniquities a stench that rose
to the stars--they had belatedly found that they had created a problem
worse than the one they'd tried to solve. One like a hydra-beast.

Criminality was not a thing of heredity. The children of the
transported convicts, most of them, were honest and wanted to be
respectable. And they could not be.

Earth's crime rate, too, had not been lowered materially by exiling its
gangsters and murderers to Callisto. When it was long past time, the
League had stepped in, and set a governor of its own over Callisto.

If the governor had been an honest man a satisfactory solution might
have been worked out. The first governor had been honest. Under him
great strides had been made. The bribe-proof, gun-handy League police
had stamped out the wide-open plague spots of the planet; public works
had been begun on a large scale. The beginnings of representative
government had been established.

But the first governor had died. And the second governor had
been--Andrias.

"_You can see the results!_" Duane thought grimly as he swung into the
airfield in his rented ground car. Foreboding was stamped on the faces
of half the Callistans he'd seen--and dark treachery on the others.
Some of those men had been among the actual exiled criminals--the last
convict ship had landed only a dozen years before. All of those whom
Andrias planned to arm were either of the original transportation-men,
or their weaker descendants.

What was holding Andrias back? Why the need for smuggling guns in?

The answer to that, Duane thought, was encouraging but not conclusive.
Clearly, then, Andrias did not have complete control over the League
police. But how much control he did have, what officers he had won over
to treachery, Duane could not begin to guess.

Duane slid the car into a parking slot, switched off the ignition and
left it. It was night, but the short Callistan dark period was nearly
over. A pearly glow at the horizon showed where the sun would come
bulging over in a few minutes; while at the opposite rim of the planet
he could still see the blood-red disc of mighty Jupiter lingering for
a moment, casting a crimson hue over the landscape, before it made the
final plunge. The field was not flood-lighted. Traffic was scarce on
Callisto.

Duane, almost invisible in the uncertain light, stepped boldly out
across the jet-blasted tarmac toward the huge bulk of the _Cameroon_,
the rocket transport which had brought him. Two other ships lay on the
same seared pavement, but they were smaller. They were fighting ships,
small, speedy ones, in Callisto for refueling before returning to the
League's ceaseless patrol of the System's starlanes.

Duane hesitated briefly, wondering whether he ought to go to one of
those ships and tell his story to its League commander. He decided
against it. There was too little certainty for him there; too much risk
that the commander, even, might be a tool of Andrias'.

Duane shook his head angrily. If only his memory were clear--if only he
could be sure what he was doing!

       *       *       *       *       *

He reached the portal of the ship. A gray-clad League officer was there
standing guard, to prevent the ship taking off.

"Official business," Duane said curtly, and swept by the startled
man before he could object. He hurried along the corridor toward the
captain's office and control room. A purser he passed looked at him
curiously, and Duane averted his face. If the man recognized him there
might be questions.

For the thousandth time he cursed the gray cloud that overhung his
memory. He didn't know, even, who among the crew might know him and
spread the alarm.

Then he was at the door marked, _Crew only--do not enter!_ He tapped on
it, then grasped the knob and swung it open.

A squat, open-featured man in blue, the bronze eagles of the Mercantile
Service resting lightly on his powerful shoulders, looked at him.
Recognition flared in his eyes.

"Duane!" he whispered. "Peter Duane, what're you doing in the clothes
of Andrias' household guard?"

Duane felt the tenseness ebb out of his throat. Here was a friend.

"Captain," he said, "you seem to be a friend of mine. If you are--I
need you. You see, I've lost my memory."

"Lost your memory?" the captain echoed. "You mean that blow on your
head? The ship's surgeon said something ... yes, that was it. I hardly
believed him, though."

"But were we friends?"

"Why, yes, Peter."

"Then help me now," said Duane. "I have a cargo stowed in your hold,
Captain. Do you know what it is?"

"Why--yes. The rifles, you mean?"

Duane blinked. He nodded, then looked dizzily for a chair. The captain
was a friend of his, all right--a fellow gun-runner!

"Good God," he said aloud. "What a mess!"

"What's happened?" the captain asked. "I saw you in the corridor,
arguing with Stevens. You looked like trouble, and I should have
come up to you then. But the course was to be changed, and I had to
be there.... And the next I hear, Stevens is dead, and you've maybe
killed him. Then I heard you've lost your memory, and are in a jam with
Andrias."

He paused and speculation came into his eyes, almost hostility.

"Peter Duane," he said softly, "it strikes me that you may have lost
more than your memory. Which side are you on. What happened between
you and Andrias? Tell me now if you've changed sides on me, man. For
friendship's sake I won't be too hard on you. But there's too much at
stake here--"

"Oh, hell," said Peter, and the heat gun was suddenly in his hand,
leveled at the squat man in blue. "I wish you were on my side, but
there's no way I can tell. I can trust myself, I think--but that's all.
Put up your hands!"

And that was when his luck ran out.

"Peter--" the captain began.


                                  IV

But a sound from outside halted him. Together the two men stared at the
viewplates. A siren had begun to shriek in the distance, the siren of a
racing ground car. Through the gates it plunged, scattering the light
wooden barrier. It spun crazily around on two wheels and came roaring
for the ship.

Andrias was in it.

Peter turned on the captain, and the gun was rigidly outthrust in his
hand.

"Close your ports!" he snarled. "Up rockets--in a hurry!"

"Listen, Peter," the captain began.

"I said, hurry!" The car's brakes shrieked outside, and it disappeared
from the view of the men. There was an abrupt babble of voices.

"Close your ports!" Peter shouted savagely. "Now!"

The captain opened his mouth to speak, then snapped it shut. He touched
the stud of a communications set, said into it, "Close ports. Snap to
it. Engine room--up rockets in ten seconds. All crew--stand by for
lift!"

The ship's own take-off siren howled shrilly, drowning out the angry
voices from below. Peter felt the whine of the electrics that dogged
shut the heavy pressure doors. He stepped to the pilot's chair, slid
into it, buckled the compression straps around him.

The instruments--he recognized them all, knew how to use them! Had he
been a rocket pilot before his mind had blanked--before embarking on
the more lucrative profession of gun smuggler? He wondered....

But it was the captain who took the ship off. "Ten seconds," Peter
said. "Get moving!"

The captain hesitated the barest fraction, but his eyes were on the
heat gun and he knew that Duane was capable of using it. "The men--" he
said. "If they're underneath when the jets go, they'll burn!"

"That's the chance they take," said Duane. "They heard the siren!"

The captain turned his head quickly, and his fingers flashed out.
He was in his own acceleration seat too, laced down by heavy canvas
webbing. His hands reached out to the controls before him, and his
fingers took on a life of their own as they wove dexterously across the
keys, setting up fire-patterns, charting a course of take-off. Then the
heel of his hand settled on the firing stop....

       *       *       *       *       *

The acceleration was worse than Peter's clouded mind had expected,
but no more than he could stand. In his frame of mind, he could stand
almost anything, he thought--short of instant annihilation!

The thin air of Callisto howled past them, forming a high obligato to
the thunder of the jets. Then the air-howl faded sharply to silence,
and the booming of the rockets became less a thing of sound than a
rumble in the framework of the _Cameroon_. They were in space.

[Illustration: _The Cameroon blasted from its cradle, racing Andrias'
ships for open space._]

The captain's foot kicked the pedal that shut off the over-drive jets,
reducing the thrust to a mere one-gravity acceleration. He turned to
Duane.

"What now?" he asked.

Duane, busy unstrapping himself from the restraining belts, shook his
head without answering. What now? "_A damn good question!_" he thought.

The captain, with the ease of long practice, was already out of his own
pressure straps. He stood there by his chair, watching Duane closely.
But the gun was still in Duane's hand, despite his preoccupation.

Duane cocked an ear as he threw off the last strap. Did he hear voices
in the corridor, a distance away but coming.

The captain, looking out the port with considerable interest,
interrupted his train of thought. "What," he asked, "for instance, are
you going to do about--those?"

His arm was outstretched, pointing outward and down. Duane looked in
that direction--

The two patrol rockets were streaking up after his commandeered ship.
Fairy-like in their pastel shades, with the delicate tracery of girders
over their fighting noses, they nevertheless represented grim menace to
Duane!

He swore under his breath. The _Cameroon_, huge and lumbering, was
helpless as a sitting bird before those lithe hawks of prey. If only he
knew which side the ships were on. If only he knew--anything!

He couldn't afford to take a chance. "Stand back!" he ordered the
captain. The man in blue gave ground before him, staring wonderingly as
Duane advanced. Duane took a quick look at the control set-up, tried to
remember how to work it.

It was so tantalizingly close to his memory! He cursed again; then
stabbed down on a dozen keys at random, heeled the main control down,
jumped back, even as the ship careened madly about in its flight, and
blasted the delicate controls to shattered ashes with a bolt from his
heat gun. Now the ship was crippled, for the time being at least. Short
of a nigh-impossible boarding in space, the two patrol cruisers could
do nothing with it till the controls were repaired. The _Cameroon_, and
its cargo of political dynamite, would circle through space for hours
or days.

It wasn't much--but it was the best he could do. At least it would give
him time to think things over.

No. He heard the voices of the men in the corridor again, tumbled about
by the abrupt course change--luckily, it had been only a mild thing
compared to the one that had killed Stevens and caused his own present
dilemma--but regaining their feet and coming on. And one of the voices,
loud and harsh, was Andrias! Somehow, before the ports closed, he'd
managed to board the _Cameroon_!

       *       *       *       *       *

Duane stood erect, whirled to face the door. The captain stood by it.
Duane thrust his heat gun at him.

"The door!" he commanded. "Lock it!"

Urged by the menace of the heat gun, the captain hurriedly put out a
hand to the lock of the door--

And jerked it back, nursing smashed knuckles, as Andrias and four men
burst in, hurling the door open before them. They came to a sliding,
tumbling halt, though, as they faced grim Duane and his ready heat
pistol.

"Hold it!" he ordered. "That's right.... Stay that way while I figure
things out. The first man that moves, dies for it."

Dark blood flooded into Andrias' face, but he said no word, only
stood there glaring hatred. The smear of crimson had been brushed
from his face, but his nose was still awry and a huge purplish bruise
was spreading over it and across one cheek. The three men with him
were guards. All were armed--the police with hand weapons as lethal
as Duane's own, Andrias with an old-style projective-type weapon--an
ancient pistol, snatched from some bewildered spaceman as they burst
into the _Cameroon_.

Duane braced himself with one arm against the pilot's chair and stared
at them. The crazy circular course the blasted controls had given the
ship had a strong lateral component; around and around the ship went,
in a screaming circle, chasing its own tail. There was a sudden change
in the light from the port outside; Duane involuntarily looked up for a
moment. Dulled and purplish was the gleam from the brilliant stars all
about; the _Cameroon_, in its locked orbit, had completed a circle and
was plunging through its own wake of expelled jet-gases. He saw the two
patrol rockets streak past; then saw the flood of rocket-flares from
their side jets as they spun and braked, trying to match course and
speed with the crazy orbit of the _Cameroon_.

He'd looked away for only a second; abruptly he looked back.

"Easy!" he snapped. Andrias' arm, which had begun to lift, straightened
out, and the scowl on the governor's face darkened even more.

_Clackety-clack._ There was the sound of a girl's high heels running
along the corridor, followed by heavier thumps from the space boots of
men. Duane jerked his gun at Andrias and his police.

"Out of the way!" he said. "Let's see who's coming now."

It was the girl. Red hair fluttering in the wake of her running, face
alight with anxiety, she burst into the room.

"Peter!" she cried. "Andrias and his men--"

She stopped short and took in the tableau. Duane's eyes were on her,
and he was about to speak. Then he became conscious of something in her
own eyes, a sudden spark that flared even before her lips opened and a
thin cry came from them; even before she leaped to one side, at Andrias.

Peter cursed and tried to turn, to dodge; tried to bring his heat gun
around. But a thunder louder than the bellowing jets outside filled the
room, and a streak of livid fire crossed the fringe of Peter's brain.
Sudden blackness closed in around him. He fell--and his closing eyes
saw new figures running into the room, saw the counterplay of lashing
heat beams.

_This is it_--he thought grimly, and then thought no more.


                                  IV

Duane was in the sickbay again, on the same bed. His head was spinning
agonizedly. He forced his eyes open--and the girl was there; the same
girl. She was watching him. A cloud on her face lifted as she saw his
lids flicker open; then it descended again. Her lips quivered.

"Darn you, Peter," she whispered. "Who are you now?"

"Why--why, I'm Peter Duane, of course," he said.

"Well, thank God you know that!" It was the captain. He'd changed since
the last time Peter had seen him. One arm was slung in bandages that
bore the yellow seeping tint of burn salve.

Peter shook his head to try to clear it. "Where--where am I?" he asked.
"Andrias--"

"Andrias is where he won't bother you," the captain said. "Locked up
below. So are two of his men. The other one's dead. How's your memory,
Peter?"

Duane touched it experimentally with a questing mental finger. It
seemed all right, though he felt still dazed.

"Coming along," he said. "But where am I? The controls--I blasted them."

The captain laughed. "I know," he said briefly. "Well--I guess you had
to, in a way. You didn't trust anyone; couldn't trust anyone. You had
to make sure the rifles wouldn't get back to Callisto too soon. But
they're working on installing duplicates now, Peter. In an hour we'll
be back on Callisto. We shut the jets off already; we're in an orbit."

Duane sank back. "Listen," he said. "I think--I think my memory's
clearing, somehow. But how--I mean, were you on my side? All along?"

The captain nodded soberly. "On your side, yes, Peter," he said. "The
League's side, that is. You and I, you know, both work for the League.
When they got word of Andrias' plans, they had to work fast. To move
in by force would have meant bloodshed, would have forced his hand.
That would have been utterly bad. It was too dangerous. Callisto is
politically a powder-keg already. The whole thing might have exploded."

Peter's eyes flared with sudden hope and enlightment. "And you and I--"
he began.

"You and I, and a couple of other undercover workers were put on the
job," the captain nodded. "We had to find out who Andrias' supporters
were--and to keep him from getting more electron rifles while the
commanders of the Callisto garrison were quietly checked, to see who
was on which side. They've found Andrias' Earth backers--a group of
wealthy malcontents who thought Callisto should be exploited for their
gain, had made secret deals with him for concessions. You, of course,
slowed down the delivery of the rifles as long as you could. They lay
in the Lunar warehouses a precious extra week while you haggled over
terms. That's what you were doing with Stevens, I think, when the
course change caught you both."

"You've had him long enough," the nurse broke in. "I have a few words
to say."

"No, wait--" Duane protested. But the captain was grinning broadly. He
moved toward the door.

"Later," he said over his shoulder. "There'll be plenty of time." The
door closed behind him. Duane turned to the girl.

       *       *       *       *       *

He shook his head again. The cloud was lifting. He could almost
remember everything again; things were beginning to come into focus.
This girl, for instance--

She noticed his motion. "How's your head, Peter?" she asked
solicitously. "Andrias hit you with that awful old bullet-gun. I tried
to stop him, but all I could do was jar his arm. Oh, Peter, I was so
afraid when I saw you fall!"

"You probably saved my life," Peter said soberly. "Andrias struck me as
a pretty good shot." He tried to grin.

The girl frowned. "Peter," she said, "I'm sorry if I seemed rude,
before--the last time you were here. It was just that I.... Well, you
didn't remember me. I couldn't understand."

Peter stared at her. Yes--he _should_ remember her. He did, only--

"Perhaps this will help you," the girl said. She rummaged in a pocket
of her uniform, brought something out that was tiny and glittering. "I
don't wear it on duty, Peter. But I guess this is an exception...."

Peter pushed himself up on one elbow, trying to make out what she was
doing. She was slipping the small thing on a finger....

A ring. An engagement ring!

"Oh--" said Peter. And suddenly everything clicked; he remembered; he
could recall ... everything. That second blow on his head had undone
the harm of the first one.

He swung his legs over the side of the bed, stood up, reached out
hungry arms for the girl.

"Of course I remember," he said as she came into the circle of his
arms. "The ring on your finger. I ought to remember--_I put it there!_"

And for a long time after there was no need for words.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Transcriber's Note: There were two Section IV headings in original
text.]





End of Project Gutenberg's Conspiracy on Callisto, by James MacCreigh

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONSPIRACY ON CALLISTO ***

***** This file should be named 62476.txt or 62476.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/4/7/62476/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
