The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star Guardsman, by Albert dePina

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Star Guardsman

Author: Albert dePina

Release Date: July 26, 2020 [EBook #62765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR GUARDSMAN ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          The Star Guardsman

                           By ALBERT DePINA

               Europa was the only sanctuary for Earth's
              doomed millions. Yet to hold it, Mark Lynn
              had to fight his traitorous Overlords. And
             he was destined to lose--for his weapons were
            antiquated, his allies a fragile peaceful race.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Your business?"

The Martian Proctor's parchment-like face was blank as he examined
Lynn's pass-card impassively.

"Since when are Internationals given explanations?" Mark Lynn's dark
green eyes glowed. "I've been given none."

"In the Council Hall, humility's essential." The tall Martian drew
himself erect, arrogantly.

"See that you observe it, then." Lynn barked laconically and turning
entered the tube, while the violet-eyed Planetarian gasped in
incredulity.

When the door of the tube in which he'd been transported opened
silently, Mark Lynn found himself before a blank, polished wall of
Beryloy, but as he stepped before it, the wall slid aside to reveal an
austere room of dura-plon whose walls were buckled in places, as if
they'd endured tremendous pressure; part of the room was marked off by
beryloy cables, where a _bas-relief_ of man's progress had crumbled to
the floor and had not been removed as yet. The ceiling seemed uneven,
the polished expanse of floor was asymmetrical.

Across an enormous desk, now covered by a plotting chart, a figure
dressed in the purple uniform of a scientist, with the golden cord of
the Psychologists, gazed at him placidly out of level hazel eyes.

The short-cropped hair that escaped the confines of the tight, silver
kepis, was golden-brown, unruly, and the oval face freckle-sprinkled
had the serious expression of a precocious child.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mark regarded the girl gravely, startled at her youth, although being
accustomed to female scientists her sex did not surprise him. He
remained silent, as the etiquette of 2,022 demanded when before the
ruling class.

"You've made a characteristic beginning, Spacer Lynn," the girl
observed coldly and gestured toward a visi-screen at her side. "Was it
necessary to leave the Proctor frothing?"

"At the moment, yes!" Mark replied evenly. "Martian arrogance annoys
me, scientist."

The girl frowned slightly. "I'm Doctor Fortun," she stated after a
pause. "The Council has decided to honor you with a mission. It is a
problem particularly suited to your ... er ... talents; your record
shows a rare agility of mind impossible to find among Civicans."

"That's because controls one, six and fifteen failed to affect me,"
Mark said smiling, unconsciously displaying magnificent teeth, dazzling
against the background of his space-tanned features.

"Because you're a ..." the girl began irritably and then checked
herself. "No matter, Spacer Lynn."

"Why not finish it?" Mark sat down, stretching long, sinewy legs
until he sprawled relaxed and loose-jointed, so that it seemed even
his magnificent muscles would never be able to lift the great body.
"Atavistic, is the word." He grinned engagingly and hooded his eyes
slightly as he appraised Doctor Fortun with undisguised admiration.

The young scientist reddened, but she continued in a quiet voice.

"You were selected because you evolved the expedient of taking
Internationals on space exploration, in defiance of the Council Law
that no International can serve more than two years in one position,
by simply shifting them to different levels of work on the Spacers,
where they would be unlikely to contact each other, and, incidentally,
managed to keep yourself as a Spacer long after your term had expired.

"Your record shows also that you circumvented the non-voting status
of Internationals by organizing Civicans into groups to vote for the
interests of Internationals in exchange for confidential information on
planetary resettlement, so that they could obtain choice localities...."

"There's a fundamental necessity of calling worn-out laws to the
attention of the Council by evasion, when they refuse to listen," Mark
explained affably.

Doctor Fortun straightened angrily, her hazel eyes gold-bright with
annoyance. "You were not summoned to discuss revision of existing
laws," she flashed. "That impudence of yours hardly becomes...." She
was at a loss for words. Belonging as she did to the highest hereditary
rank in the realm, the smiling assurance of Spacer Lynn, three ranks
beneath her, and his frank insolence was a new experience to the girl.

Mark Lynn laughed joyously. The admiration in his eyes deepened.

"Thank the eternal stars!" He exclaimed.

"Have you gone mad?" The girl's voice was tight with fury. "Dare you
laugh at a scientist?"

"No, not mad--merely happy! First the Council calls me because being
_International_ and beyond Civican control my individualism and my
freedom of action are useful; you, of course, approve. Then when I
show those very qualities, you're furious. And, I'm happy because ..."
his voice dwindled.

"Yes, go on!" Her words were sheathed in velvet, but her eyes were
feral, like flaming topaz.

"Because it's paradoxical and shows you're still a woman--lovelier than
any I've ever seen," he finished almost in a whisper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doctor Fortun looked as if she were about to slap his face. Remembering
the dignity of a scientist in time, she gazed at Mark Lynn with a
mixture of feelings. Finally, something of his infectious good-nature,
of his open admiration touched her and she laughed quietly.

"You are right, Spacer Lynn," she acknowledged. "For a moment I forgot
I was a Psychologist--it's a quality about you that for an instant
made me feel less a scientist and more a ... but never mind. We'll be
together for the Deity knows how long, and it's futile to begin by
quarrelling. Lean forward so you can see this chart, I'll explain."

"We'll be together, did you say?" Mark was delighted. "Then give me a
dozen problems!"

"Yes," she replied dubiously. "As a Psychologist I'll be part of
the expedition. You'll find that this one problem will be more than
enough." The girl pressed a button on her desk and one of the undamaged
walls began to glow until it became an astro-map, a reproduction of
charted space. Each planet was indicated in relative size, and in the
lower center, pulsing angrily a thin red line marked "Comet" seemed to
be approaching inferior conjunction with Terra.

"Is that the problem?" Mark asked. "Simple! When it enters Terra's
orbit, life on Terra ceases. Evacuation's the only possible solution.
I knew that comet was approaching, but not being an Astronomer I
didn't compute its trajectory. Besides, being on Io is like being
in exile--news hardly ever reaches us there. Will it destroy Terra
completely?"

"No, not entirely. At first, indications were that it would enter the
orbit of our system at such an angle that Terra would be destroyed.
However, we've checked with the observatories on Pluto since then,
and it has been determined that it will merely enter the field of
attraction sufficiently to shift the axis to opposition. Of course,
this will render Terra unfit for habitation ... perhaps for a century
or two ... therefore, as you realized, evacuation's the answer."

"I'm listening," Mark said earnestly, as the magnitude of the problem
before them struck him. "However, you're aware I'm not an astronomer,
and the technique of evacuation could best be handled by the Council
itself. I'm afraid I still don't quite see what my role's to be.... But
whatever it is, I'm ready."

"Turn your attention to this plotting chart," Doctor Fortun indicated
the map on her desk. "These areas marked in red have already been
affected. Tremors have increased and volcanic openings are occurring
in these and these areas, never dangerous before. While you were on Io
awaiting orders for another exploratory journey, we began to attempt
resettlement of our _Civicans_ and _Ruralians_ on other Planets--even
giving them their choice of occupations and of planets ... quite a
concession you must agree."

"Quite!" The irony in his voice seemed to escape her.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We have succeeded in resettling two-thirds of Terra's population
on Mars and Venus, and a limited number on Mercury; this last world
only offered limited space at best in its twilight zone, and it was
necessary to construct subterranean cities beneath its dark side--the
frigid half--but that's another problem. Now, however, Venus refuses to
accept any more Terrans and Mars has also closed its doors to us. Under
existing treaties they have no right to exclude Terrans, but we're
hardly in a position to enforce them now."

"Hardly!" Lynn agreed sardonically.

"The problem's further complicated by the innate characteristics of
this remaining third," Doctor Fortun paused, and gazed very intently
into the dark green eyes of the Spacer before she resumed.

"They're for the most part internationals, ruralians who originally
refused to undergo controls one and six, and were not condemned to
Power Reserve because of the increasing need for Vitaminic Flora, as
you no doubt know that vibroponics, due to some peculiarity of the
radiations are greatly deficient in certain vitamins. The balance
are Planetarians from throughout the system who flatly refuse to
be repatriated. And, last but certainly not least, religious and
philosophic groups--the former, fanatical believers in _ancestrals_
and atavistic cults, who chose to regard this cosmic tragedy as a
manifestation of Divine Wrath and devote their time to frenzied,
masochistic meetings and revivals. The latter have turned stoic, and
choose to see nothing in our civilization worth living for, claiming
that all incentive has been removed, consequently, they prefer to
meet their fate on Terra. In short, this last third is completely
intractable."

"I'm amazed the Council's taken no measures!" Mark exclaimed.

"Oh, measures have been taken, of course. The philosophers
have had rank and prerogatives--even when they had scientific
honors--nullified. The religious groups have had their food allowance
reduced to the starvation point and all their privileges recalled.
The Internationals ..." here she paused again as she regarded Mark,
"since they're free-thinkers, and the most dangerous of the lot, were
ordered to report for control-treatment under penalty of death. They
promptly took to the fastnesses in the mountains and deserts by the
millions, and are existing on game and vegetables to be found in the
now abandoned regions. They are armed for the most part."

Mark Lynn was openly grinning now, but the girl chose to ignore it and
continued:

"Unfortunately, our armed forces are too busy keeping order in the
new resettlements, or they would have been subdued long ago. The
resettlements have been supplied with seed, tools, cattle, metallic
substances, concentrated fuel, machinery ... in fact, everything
necessary for a successful evacuation. This last group would have
been similarly supplied, they were even given a reprieve for their
insubordination and offered special terms--the Council can be
munificent!" For an instant her voice rang with exaltation. "But they
absolutely refuse evacuation, except...."

"Except what?" Lynn was all attention, sensing that this was the core
of the problem.

"Except on their own terms!" The young scientist exclaimed with a trace
of bitterness.

"But why don't you permit them to decide what manner of death they're
to have? What possible interest can the Council have in what to them
is an atavistic, intransigent group that detests our system of planned
existence? If the prospect of a continuation of this civilization gags
them, even in another planet, then obviously their choice to remain and
die here should be respected." Mark's voice was very soft.

The limpid hazel eyes of the girl mirrored her shock at Mark's words.

"Impossible! It would be horribly wasteful. And, a distinct failure on
the Council's part. Those lives can be useful--the Council never fails!"

"Amen!" Mark Lynn exclaimed archaically. "And where do I come in?"

The irony of his present situation didn't escape him. That he, an
_International_, a strata of the highly complex social order considered
most dangerous, should be called in to solve a problem of such
magnitude, involving (of all people) Internationals and intransigents,
would have been fantastic to anyone not acquainted with the subtle and
at times Machiavellian methods of the Council.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doctor Fortun handed him a rolled, tissue-thin, metallic cylinder for
an answer.

"Those are your orders from the Council," she said soberly. "I'm but an
agent, as you know. Just one among the scientists who will be in charge
upon arrival. Do not read it now. It is final. Take this card, it's a
permit to enter a scientific News-Casting Booth and scan all available
data for the past year. We know that out of the remaining third,
roughly three or four hundred million at best will be transportable.
The balance are far too old to withstand the journey--their power
potential is negligible, and in any case, they'd much rather die than
leave. But it's the three or four hundred million transportables who
are highly useful for the particular purpose of the Council, that
we must ... or rather," she smiled faintly, "you must convince." She
opened a drawer and extracted a gleaming metal disk. "These credits
will be ample," she said, extending it to Mark.

Lynn's eyes widened. "Ten thousand credits? I've had to work as many
years for that amount!"

Doctor Fortun smiled. "May you live to spend them, Spacer Lynn," she
said cryptically. "Greetings!"

Mark Lynn wanted to speak, to ask her social name, anything that would
delay his departure from her office. But he knew the interview was at
an end even before she turned to the mass of figures and data on her
desk.

Spacer Lynn threw a rapid glance around the room. They were still
alone, but he knew that the entire interview had been minutely
recorded--the august body of scientists of the first order who composed
the Council took no chances, especially with Internationals, the
adventurers, the pioneers who opened up new worlds for the maddeningly
impersonal efficiency of the Council to take over and remold. But Mark
didn't care. There was little that they didn't know about him, in
detail.

Mark Lynn in common with a few million others was a product of his time
and station. One of the immense legion of war orphans that the constant
and increasingly destructive warfare of the twentieth and twenty-first
centuries had left behind, he was automatically a ward of the Executive
Council.

Now that wars had finally been abolished as wasteful and inefficient,
the ultimate goal of the social order was "Achievement." It had become
a religion. It was instilled into infantile minds with the first
toddling steps; it was propagated through a thousand subtle means; it
was a constant threat in the background of every living being under
the government of Terra. _Achievement_ was the inexorable law. It
might mean producing so many tons of vitaminic flora during a span of
so many years, or perhaps the production of metallic substances, or
the exploration of so many worlds, as in Mark's case. Regardless of
the task imposed, its final, successful and unequivocal completion was
the "Achievement" for that particular being. And, woe unto him who
_failed_ to achieve!

In Mark Lynn's case, having been given over to the International
Police for training as an astrogator and having finished his course
with brilliant honors, he had been given a first-class exploration
rating, and trained in outer space navigation. Years of successful
interplanetary and outer space exploration and research had given
him an unequaled experience as an explorer. It was his duty to give
the Council implicit obedience--and to reserve his thinking for the
problems of unexplored worlds and outer space. The Council, Rulers of
the World State, frowned on thinking without directives, especially by
those beyond control, such as the Internationals, of which Mark Lynn
was a great leader.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thinking led to individualism, and the latter to conflict of opinions,
eventually to become conflict of a far more deadly sort. The recent
past was an unerasable record of promiscuous thinking; it had brought
too many problems, social and economic--it was wasteful, slipshod and
inefficient. So it became a matter of unalterable policy to train
each individual rigidly in that station in life to which he was
best fitted, where he or she could function with maximum efficiency
toward achievement. It became essential to apply control "one," which
instilled into the mental patterns a dreadful guilt of waste--whether
of energy, credits or time, much as the ancient Puritans lived in the
fear of their consciences and could never be comfortable or enjoy
frivolous moments or leisure. Control "six" became an obsession to
achieve, subtly replacing the emotional complex of what in an earlier
day was called "ambition," until nothing, literally nothing could stand
before that one, all-important goal. And finally, control "fifteen"
became an absolute need for guidance, a pattern that subtly replaced
the instinct for security of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, so
that all problems, all crises were solved by the Council. An attempt to
make individual solutions, resulted in an awful sense of "aloneness,"
of absolute insecurity that could drive a civican or ruralian to the
verge of a psychosis. There were other controls, some major and
some minor, but these three, one, six and fifteen, were the three
imperatives. Mark Lynn was impervious to them--he had to be to belong
to the Internationals.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the sealed cylinder in an inner pocket of his tunic, that boasted
a golden sun embroidered on the chest, Mark left the building and
made his way through the milling crowds in the streets. They were all
hurrying to some individual task--office workers in the black gowns
of their calling; artisans with wide, tooled belts. The violet-eyed
Martian proctors who acted as guards, and the tiny, slender Venusians,
with their vari-colored wings and melodious voices. Scientists of
the various orders were hurrying to the transportation belts, while
technicians in their bright blue tunics went in and out of different
buildings. There was no confusion, no disorder, despite the evident
haste.

Shops were closed, deserted or wrecked by earthquakes. Many buildings
were in partial ruins, others had huge cracks along the sides. Yet,
from the public visi-screens posted along the street came glimpses of
beautiful scenes and soft, seductive music. A light powdery snow was
falling, and the wind danced a sara-band unchecked.

"Weather control stations must have failed," Mark said inwardly, and
breathed deeply, gratefully, the keen, icy freshness of the wind.

An old woman, a ruralian carrying a huge bundle, spied him and eagerly
grasped his arm. "Greetings, International! Pray give an old woman
information! I've farmed my allotment and _achieved_ ten years ahead
of my plan, and now they tell me I must move to Venus! I don't mind
the moving--though I mistrust those winged creatures--but I'm old and
very tired. Does my moving mean I'll have another allotment to achieve?
Must I clear Venusian land? Tell me International, if I'm assigned to
a freighter, will the gravs be likely to shorten what remains of my
life-span?"

Mark laughed at the loud avalanche of questions. "Peace, Ruralian,"
he managed through his laughter. "I doubt if you'll be required
to _achieve_ another allotment. Didn't the government grant you
sufficient credits for a new start?"

The ruralian woman pulled out a package of rank, Venusian cigarets
and contentedly puffed on one after lighting it. "Yes, when the
earth-temblors ruined my land and a mouth of fire finished it, a
proctor came from the Council and gave me enough credits to last a body
a life-time, then told me to make my way to transportation. But I can't
bring myself to spend those credits, International--its wasteful....
I'd rather achieve another allotment. Why, I haven't bought a thing for
fifty years that I could grow or make myself!

"I've been some time getting here from the Arizona sector, for the
shakes disrupted the conveyor roads, and I lost a lot of things when
another mouth of fire pushed up where the road was and blew my cart
to the four winds--It's a miracle I'm here at all! But about the
freighter, will the gravs...."

"Ask for the sleep-freeze ... it will be given you, in any event. If
anything, it'll lengthen your span, and the journey will seem like an
overnight trip to you. If you need directing, a proctor will assist
you. Greetings Ruralian!" Mark tried to make his tones as kindly as he
possibly could, but realizing the woman was eager to make conversation,
he ended the incident--he was still on duty.

"Greetings, International," she replied disappointed, and heaved the
bundle to her shoulder.

Mark had not walked ten paces when instant correlation between his
senses, mental synthesis and muscular reaction made him swerve
aside, bending over at the same time. It had been the horror-shocked
expression in the eyes of a technician barely three paces before him,
that had sent the Spacer hurtling to one side, half bent over, bowling
pedestrians aside like ten-pins. A thin pencil of light flashed where
Mark's head had been seconds before. Mark had turned without pausing
and he saw a tall International whose yellow tunic bore the red whorl
insignia of a conveyor-road inspector.

Mark's molecular rate was faster than any other strata, purposely,
because of his calling, and to the spectators it seemed as if he'd
twisted, turned and flung himself into a prodigious tackle all in
one motion. The attacking International, fully as tall as Mark, went
down under the terrific impact, his atomo-pistol sailing through the
icy atmosphere in a falling arc. But with the agility of a Martian
Hellacorium, he was up and snarling: "Traitor!" through clenched teeth.
With a cry of baffled fury he launched himself at Mark unhesitatingly,
one hand fumbling at his belt.

But Mark ducked, side-stepping. He was icy calm now, although the
reason for this attack baffled him. Mark was in his element in a fight;
the International Police trained its wards to be fighting machines,
deadly in their efficiency. Explorers had to be!


                                  II

Mark wheeled as the attacker hurtled past him and his straight left
went unerringly to the man's head, jarring him. Automatically Mark's
training came to the fore, as everything else faded until it was only
Spacer Lynn and a murderous enemy. Mark's right was a peg upon which
he hung the attacker's blasting blow, while he used the boxer's left,
long and weaving, throwing it swiftly like a cat sparring with a
mouse dangling by the tail from its teeth. His left bounced off the
attacker's chin. It was a little high, but the man rocked on his heels.

The killer rushed. Mark let his heels touch the ground, refused to run.
The attacker was too aggressive and eager for complete defense. Mark
caught him with a left and right and calmly took a murderous hook to
the belly without flinching, then he let his right hand ride, dropping
it like a sledge-hammer. The attacker's face seemed to lose contour,
its features blurred as the face went gory; his feet crossed and his
knees went suddenly rubbery. The conveyor-road inspector fell with a
crash and didn't get up.

Mark became suddenly aware that two Martian proctors flanked him,
deadly atomo-pistols pressing at his sides.

"Silence and obedience, International! Follow!" came the crisp, laconic
order from the senior proctor.

Instantly a visi-screen lighted and a cold, imperious voice directed:

"Remove the attacker, dispose as power reserve. Spacer Lynn proceed on
mission!"

In unison, the two proctors saluted and the atomo-pistols disappeared.
It was the voice of the Council, through some subordinate.

"The eyes and ears of the universe!" Mark Lynn exclaimed ironically in
a whisper. The cometary reaction must have been psychological as well
as physical to bring about crime in a social order where for centuries
it had disappeared. Or had it? Mark wondered. How many secrets, how
much factual data the Council kept from the people? No one would ever
know. But why try to liquidate him? He'd just arrived from years in
outer space; surely he couldn't possibly have enemies on Terra! Was
his mission known? And come to think of it, just what was his mission
actually? Meditatively, he tapped the cylinder in the inner pocket of
his tunic. Could _that_ have been the motive for the assault?

       *       *       *       *       *

"Palanth!" Mark Lynn exclaimed delightedly as he spied a dandified
Martian leaning against a column of chrysophrase, upon entering the
lobby of the International Police headquarters to report.

Tall and sinewy-lean, with the exaggeratedly narrow waist
characteristic of the Martians, Palanth gazed startled at his companion
of many adventures, from behind a silken square of Venusian-spider
silk drenched in the overpowering fragrance of Venusian Jasmines. Only
the violet eyes were visible, startling against the background of his
flaming hair.

In the tight-fitting yellow tunic of an International, he resembled an
ancient, narrow-waisted cretan come to life, but for the flaming mane
and towering height.

"Greetings! O bird of ill-omen, what malodorous wind blew you in
from outer space?" He dropped the handkerchief long enough to reveal
chiselled nostrils and white even teeth as he smiled heart-warmingly.
He placed his left hand on Mark's shoulder, in the immemorial gesture
Mars reserved for the closest friends.

"One sec, Planetarian, while I check in," Mark grinned also placing
his hand on the Martian's shoulder, knowing how it annoyed the
Martian to be called by a lower rank. Mark stepped into a booth that
automatically recorded his status as the visi-screen panel glowed into
life.

"Spacer Mark Lynn, Exploratory Astrogator First Class, reporting. Under
sealed orders from the Supreme Council. Last station Io. Awaiting
further orders." In a thousand departments that recorded global
information and checked it in detail even psychologically, Mark's words
automatically became part of the endless record. But there was no
answer. The visi-screen faded to a smouldering green and went blank.

"Strange!" Mark muttered to himself, stepping out of the booth. "These
orders must be final." He touched the slight bulge made by the cylinder
he carried.

Curiosity was beginning to needle him, but orders from the Council
could only be opened in absolute privacy, especially sealed orders.

Palanth was waiting for him, the eternal handkerchief pressed against
his nose. A brilliant panagran, blood-red and flashing made a deep
spot of color against his left ear-lobe. Everything about him seemed
indolent, aesthetic, super-refined. And the exquisite fragrances from
the known universe with which he drenched his squares of silk, thanks
to his mania against human odors, added to the foppish effect.

"Have you come to twist the tail of the comet, O thou especially not
wanted?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Palanth waved his handkerchief diffusing jasmines in the rich austerity
of the lobby, as he lounged back against the column with a sigh that
might have meant anything. His yellow tunic--as near the color of gold
as he dared, without actually being the hue reserved for the Supreme
head of the Council, shimmered like watered silk. His slender hands
flashed with _acerines_ and _calchuites_.

"Breath-taking, as usual," Mark was grinning from ear to ear,
"specially that godawful jungle fumes you're soaked in ... arrgh! I
can't breathe!"

"My only defense against you creatures," Palanth said languidly. "I
need replenishing, Mark, shall we go?"

"Lord, yes. I could eat an Europan." Mark checked himself as an
odd tight expression came into his eyes, and his hand tightened
on something hard inside a lower pocket of his tunic. He fell
unaccountably silent for a moment.

Palanth strode beside him with a lithe, tigerish stride which belied
his now forgotten languid pose of a few minutes ago. His deceptive
exterior--which many to their final regret had found could disappear
like lightning, still made him seem a Planetarian fop whom the Council
permitted harmless foibles for reasons of their own.

"I never hoped to see you again after that crash on Europa." Palanth
exclaimed with a relieved sigh. "You're so reckless, Mark, and death is
so permanent!"

"Of course, _you_ are not reckless," Mark taunted with obvious irony,
remembering how the Martian International could explode into action
like an enraged Martian Hella. "In your superior wisdom, there's no
reason to take chances--everything's planned in advance, logically,
coldly.... Bah. Do you recall that little incident on Venus when they
served you imitation Thassalian and that little Venusian baggage tried
to dope you with...."

"Cease! O chattering...." Palanth interrupted as near being embarrassed
as it was possible for him to be. The rest of what he said was buried
in the perfumed handkerchief which he hastily pressed against his face
as they joined the crowds that filled the avenue.

"But what are you here for? It is permissible to know?" Mark asked
soberly at last.

"I may as well tell you," Palanth said, his tones muffled by the
handkerchief. "You'd never have the imagination to guess!"

"You probably have been appointed to regulate the last batch of
outgoing freighters enroute to various space stations, in order to
relieve congestion and ease pressure of transportation. There may be
something else ... eh?"

"Master mind! But there's that last _something else_ that you'd never
guess."

"Inductive reasoning tells me that a freight coordinator would
be assigned to freight problems ... let _me_ talk ... but this
seems to be the last time that old Terra is going to send freight
anywhere. I feel there's one last measure to be taken against the
unpredictable--something calculated to checkmate a future result. Oh
I know I sound as if I were talking gibberish, Palanth, but well ...
it's still sort of foggy in my mind. I'll know more when I read my
orders."

"I've already read mine," Palanth said quietly. "I'm persuaded they're
not very different from yours--in the last analysis. It's a gigantic
game, Mark!"

"Then you know?"

"Yes!" It was almost a whisper, almost a telepathic assent. "But here's
our energy center, let's go on in."

       *       *       *       *       *

Once within the vast dining-hall, known as an Energy Center, they
selected a table and from the menu the number of the meal that suited
them, pressing the numerically corresponding stud on the panel above
the table. The food came on a conveyor belt that passed beneath the
floor and emerged from the center of the table which was hollow and had
a panel that slid aside as the food arrived.

"Well, what have you learned," Palanth asked Mark as they began their
meal.

Mark Lynn outlined what he knew and added a few conjectures of his own,
and Palanth's face split gradually in a wide grin.

"A pretty mess.... How many of you flesh-eating mammals are there left
to transport ... the irreconcilables, I mean, the dissenters."

"Roughly about five hundred million. They're an amazing mixture
of Internationals, Philosophers and Ruralians--the three most
individualistic strata!"

"It would be easier to ray them down, let the Comet wipe them out
in due time, than to go to all this trouble of persuading them to
evacuate." Palanth retorted coldly. "Still, to my Martian mind, they're
far more valuable than your herds of controlled sheep--at least, they
can think for themselves!"

"However, in a controlled, beneficent political economy such as the
World State, any such benevolent treatment as raying them down, or
abandoning them to sidereal extinction is outlawed," a quiet, mellow
voice said behind them.

Both Mark and Palanth looked up with a start to see the exquisite oval
face with the serious, limpid hazel eyes of Doctor Fortun, in her
purple scientist tunic. Palanth rose instantly and bowed, Mark was but
a fraction of a second behind him.

"It's a rare honor for Spacers to enjoy socially the company of a
Scientist," Mark said gravely, but his eyes were dancing.

"Probably just as well, if you express such unorthodox opinions
freely," she replied sitting between them at the table. "However, we
have a long journey ahead, might as well begin to know each ... as
we really are." Her smile was an adventure, and when she turned her
head to survey Palanth with frank curiosity, Mark noted that her hair
escaping the tight-fitting kepis was almost the color of dark honey in
the sun.

"A long journey...." Palanth murmured as he picked absorbedly at
something on his plate that resembled purple pop-corn. "A long journey,
where ... how, and to what end?"

"What are you eating?" Doctor Fortun asked almost too casually, instead
of replying.

"These? Oh, candied violets," Palanth's languid pose had returned aware
that many eyes were upon him in the crowded energy center.

"Don't you have enough perfume as it is without eating it too?" Mark
growled.

"Peace, O spawn of unthinkable misfortune!" Palanth said grandly and
filled his mouth with the delicacy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doctor Fortun laughed aloud, it was like the tintinnabulation of
clustered silver bells.

"Fraud!" she exclaimed amiably. "If I were not acquainted with your
past record I'd think you were a fop. Does that pose ever fool anybody,
Palanth?"

The tall Martian grinned shrugging his shoulders. "Who knows? _It's
been so long since I've had adventure for a bride!_" He quoted a line
from the famous Terran poet of the twenty-first century.

"He's done it so long, it's become second nature with him," Mark said
inelegantly. "However, the perfume business is no pose. Wait till you
see his collection of extracts!"

Palanth glared at him, but remained silent. Just then a growing
tremor shook the energy center, and one of the walls split from floor
to ceiling. Their table fell with a crash and the hum of the food
conveyors ceased. Voices rose in startled exclamations and the crash
of other tables added to the increasing noise. A convulsive heave
rent the floor and the continuous series of audio-pictures on the
visi-screen ceased abruptly.

After what seemed an eternity, in reality seconds, the quake subsided,
leaving wreckage behind and the pale, strained faces of the guests.

"Even here in North America, the very heart of the World State, the
quakes are increasing," Doctor Fortun said thoughtfully. "Our estimates
gave us eight more weeks before the proximity of the comet neutralized
astro-warp evacuation. It seems hardly possible, but there may be
elements in the situation we have failed to calculate. I believe the
sooner we complete evacuation the better it'll be." She glanced at Mark
speculatively.

"I suggest you read your orders this evening, once you're registered at
International House, Spacer Lynn."

"That's my plan," Mark told her. "And speaking of unknown elements,
I'm still puzzled at being attacked by an International today. I was
unaware that I had enemies on Terra. What could the motive have been?"

"Attacked?" Palanth was instantly alert. "Why didn't you tell me, Mark?"

The Spacer shrugged his shoulders. "It was a minor incident--only, it's
mystery bothers me. I've been taught there's no crime on Terra, and I
am too unimportant for political liquidation."

"You forget," Doctor Fortun said softly, "the profound dislocations
brought about by this unforeseen situation. Two-thirds of Terra's
population have been evacuated. Another third--the most intractable,
refuses cooperation. There are many sympathizers in high places.
In the inevitable confusion, the efficiency of the World State has
been impaired. What would have been impossible a few months ago,
can happen now. You're not only our chief explorer, but a name to
conjure with among Internationals--your word has never been broken.
Being suspected of having become a subservient tool of the Council is
enough for certain elements to consider you too dangerous to their
aims--therefore, guard your life, Spacer!"

"But I'm not a tool!" Mark exclaimed fiercely. "My allegiance to the
Council only involves my life--not the lives of others--I'll not
defraud them, dissenters or not!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Doctor Fortun smiled quietly, as if contemplating some inner scene. The
brilliant hazel eyes were veiled and whatever activity went on behind
the smooth forehead was masked. The confusion within the Energy Center
had subsided, and the guests were leaving now in orderly fashion, but
as fast as possible.

"It's time to exit," the girl said casually. "Pity we were interrupted
just when we were beginning to really know each other." Suddenly her
manner changed as with what seemed an unconscious gesture she removed
the tight-fitting cap and her hair fell about her shoulders with the
gleaming patina of dark gold. Her smile had the demure sweetness of an
embarrassed girl, her eyes were soft and luminous as she gazed first at
Mark and then at Palanth.

"There's a strato-cruiser of the first order leaving at six for a
resort on the gulf of Mexico--Havanol--it's perhaps the last time we'll
have a chance to see it. Shall we ..." she hesitated, "shall we dine
there?" Rose mantled her cheeks and her long lashes swept downwards as
she made the suggestion.

"Havanol!" Mark was enchanted. "Martian music and food to tempt
archangels ... but how can you and I enter Havanol? It's open only to
special permit!"

"You're not by any remote chance forgetting me?" Palanth inquired with
elaborate irony. "I've never seen Havanol, besides, I'm sure Doctor
Fortun would like to use some Parnassin for the occasion."

"Parnassin! The perfume of the butterfly orchids of Venus! Why,
Palanth, it's worth more than _calchuites_--it's the rarest, the most
unattainable of extracts!" Doctor Fortun clasped her hands in ecstasy
at the very thought of it. Then her rigid scientific training asserted
itself. "But I couldn't wear it, it's like evaporating a fortune in
credits within a few hours," she said unhappily.

"Bother, control 'one,' forget it for one memorable night!" Palanth was
exasperated. "I know its antidote--and I have it!" he said savagely.

"So have I," Mark said grinning.

       *       *       *       *       *

"_Thassalian?_" the girl was startled. It was the forbidden Martian
liquor of the Gods. It could achieve almost miraculous cures when taken
in tiny doses; it gave the sensation of ineffable happiness, and when
taken to excess, it drove the addict hopelessly insane.

"We still haven't solved the problem of the special permit," Mark
reminded them.

"I have one for a party of four, which I haven't used as yet," Doctor
Fortun said with a hint of shyness. "You'll have time to read your
orders and then I'll pick you both up at International House in my
helio-plane. Agreed?"

"Agreed!" Both Mark and Palanth said fervently. They watched the
slight figure of the girl as she made her way through the crowds with
precision, her purple tunic vivid against the white carpet of fallen
snow. "Her mind was well guarded!" Palanth thought aloud.

"It is a mind of power, or I would have contacted it," Mark barely
whispered without moving his lips.

"Still, there can be nothing at Havanol that we can't cope with,"
Palanth shot a powerful telepathetic vibration at the Earthian Spacer.
"Have you had the feeling of being under spy-ray, Mark?"

"Yes, for months ... but I've guarded my mind, and as you know, the
Council's spy-ray is not quite effective on those beyond controls one,
six and fifteen; we're beyond conditioning for penetration by their
mental synthesis. At times they're able to obtain partial ideation
which they reconstruct and reform into thought-pattern trends--but
hell! our thought-trends and individualistic patterns have been known
to them all our lives. However, we are being used as tools--indirectly!"

"We have no proof, Earthman! In any event, within certain limits we are
still free agents. Their orders may be one thing, what we do ... is
another. This cataclysm has shorn the World State of most of its power,
on Terra at any rate. Mars and Venus would sweep the resettlements off
their planets if the Terran fleet weren't constantly on guard!"

"Havanol may give us an inkling of what the game is!" Mark observed.
"The whole secret lies within the reason for evacuating the
irreconcilables. The Civicans, Guildians, Technicians and Ruralians
are merely the base of the pyramid; between them and the Scientists
there's a gap that must be filled by the Internationals and the
Philosophers--without pioneers and thinkers in the abstract, their
rule's static. Their scheme, whatever it is, fails without us." Mark
was telepathically communicating with Palanth his conclusions as they
neared International House.

Palanth's violet eyes narrowed in amusement. "They no doubt have
a surprise for us in store--how poetic that we should be the ones
to surprise them!" The Martian waved his perfumed kerchief and the
sparkling iciness of the breeze was scented with fresh jasmines.


                                  III

Mark's hand tightened on the hard object he carried in a lower pocket
of his tunic. It seemed to him as if an immeasurably distant vibration
reached the very top of his brain where the most difficult thinking
is done. It was a fleeting thought, the barest sidereal whisper, that
was gone almost the instant it impinged upon his mind. Could the final
answer lie there for them?

With Terra gone, or made uninhabitable, they would be homeless
children of space, unless they subjected themselves to the prosaic,
uninspiring existence of the planetarian settlements, limited by space,
rigidly under Council control--their lives but pawns in a gigantic
game that was planned for centuries to come with a cold, mathematical
impersonality that reduced life to a mechanical phenomenon. Mark
shuddered slightly.

"Yes, Palanth, poetic justice indeed! Come to my apartment at
International House, I want to tell you a story ... the story of what
happened on Europa when I was Mark the daredevil, recorded as Hugh
Betancourt--the surname of my Mentor before I earned my rank and the
right to use my own name. Jim Brannigan was my second in command, when
he crashed our ship on Europa...." He was smiling with a distant look
in his eyes.

Later, they met Doctor Fortun.

She was still sheathed in the filmy tunic of silver-violet she had worn
at Havanol. The fragrance of Venusian butterfly-orchids was a faint
invitation to desire. But her firm, capable hands at the controls, sent
the luxurious helio-plane hurtling through the stratosphere at a dizzy
speed above a continental cloud bank.

Dawn was beginning in a young flood of opalescent fire; the ship was
dipping and the clouds were swirling. Doctor Fortun sat silent with an
enigmatic smile on her lips. Mark Lynn didn't speak lest he break the
spell, while Palanth leaned back in his mullioned seat, eyes closed,
recapturing the past memorable hours.

At last the terrain became visible.

It seemed only seconds and they were hovering above the immense
interplanetary field where vast spacers awaited launching. Built to
accommodate hundreds of thousands, their titanic proportions dwarfed
everything around them. Doctor Fortun touched the controls of her
helio-plane, and instantly the ship veered and aimed straight for one
of the spacers. She flicked a lever and locked the controls. Calmly,
she released another lever, and the robot pilot took over. She leaned
back with a sigh, her shoulders slumped, silent still.

Mark Lynn's eyes widened. "What are you doing! We'll crash against that
Spacer...." He leaped to the controls but the locking mechanism had
been set for arrival and could not be unlocked until the ship came to a
stop. At the urgency in his voice, Palanth jerked forward wide awake,
in time to glimpse the cavernous proportions of the starboard port of
the interplanetary spacer yawning open to receive them.

As it entered the stupendous spacer, the helio-plane decelerated
suddenly, coming to an abrupt stop that pressed them back against
their ultra-padded seats as if a gigantic hand had pushed them back.
Instantly the spacer's port closed automatically without a sound and
vari-colored lights flashed within the ship. A bell rang shrilly,
insistently somewhere.

"Strap yourselves immediately and push that small lever on the side of
your seats, it'll convert them into couches," Doctor Fortun directed
hurriedly. "Prepare for launching!" She herself was already busy
converting her own seat and then strapping herself. From a pocket of
her tunic she took a tiny box and opening it took two pellets which she
swallowed; within seconds she was unconscious. Mark reached over and
took the box from her nerveless fingers. "Vanadol! For those who do not
wish the sleep-freeze, Palanth! Do you want any? Or will you withstand
the gravs?"

"Neither, I'll submerge my conscious mind and thus preserve everything
that occurs in my subconscious without suffering the effects of
acceleration."

"So will I," Mark agreed. His dark green eyes were lambent with fury.
"We've been tricked very neatly, old Spacer. We're going somewhere,
willy-nilly. The first trick's theirs!" He gazed at the unconscious
form of the girl with a mixture of sorrow and anger. "The same old
story on a higher plane," he whispered to himself. "A memorable
night--and the next day shanghaied into space! I wonder if the ancients
staffed their crude water vessels in this manner?"

       *       *       *       *       *

As they submerged their conscious minds, a buzzer vibrated throughout
the interplanetary spacer, a tremor went through the beryllium alloy
monster and suddenly it catapulted into space on the astro-warp,
robot-controlled until beyond the gravitational pull of Terra. The
tiny Helio-Plane, tiny in comparison with the titanic spacer, hung
suspended in a special craddle to minimize still further the effects
of 2g's acceleration. Doctor Fortun and the two Internationals were
too valuable to take chances. But the incongruous three were beyond
inductive thinking as the "Stellar-Virgin" leaped away from Earth.

They didn't hear a mechanical voice order: "Free fall into orbit
three." Presently the ship settled into the warp. After a while, the
same mechanical voice ordering: "Free fall into orbit nine." Presently
the Space Drive took hold as the interplanetary cruiser warped out into
free space. The normal gravity plates began to function and instantly
the pressure ceased.

Color returned to Mark Lynn's face, he was the first to awaken.
From where he lay, he could see the still form of Palanth, a fallen
dishevelled giant, and the fragile figure of Doctor Fortun, pale as
death and as still. A pang of pity shot through him, then remembering,
a surge of anger made his eyes grow cold.

Leisurely he unstrapped himself and stretched, then went over and
unstrapped his two companions. "Well, we're together, for better or for
worse," he sighed. Just then Palanth shuddered and opened his violet
eyes; at sight of Mark he sat up abruptly, passing a dazed hand over
his eyes. Then he saw the still unconscious form of Doctor Fortun and
recollection came to him.

"She's still asleep," Mark said softly. "Let her rest, we'll have ample
time for explanations."

Suddenly Palanth laughed. "Shanghaied, by Jupiter's Red Spot!" He
searched assiduously for his eternal kerchief. "Ah, here it is ..."
then remembering, "My extracts! All my fragrances that have taken years
to collect, left on Terra!" He cursed venomously in five interplanetary
dialects until he was out of breath.

"Magnificent!" Mark commented admiringly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Palanth subsided into smoldering fury, his great eyes almost black, the
chiselled nostrils quivering. To him it was an appalling loss.

"Go on, don't stop now," Mark urged him grinning. "Later, when she
wakes up, you won't be able to mourn your perfumes; now's your
chance, besides I'd like some of those remarks for my own collection,
Planetarian!"

"You'll find them in your private quarters awaiting you in the Spacer,"
a wan voice said wearily. "I feel as if I'd been mangled," Doctor
Fortun sighed tremulously. Both men turned toward the girl, but her
slender body had not stirred, the eyes were closed, only a tiny, tired
smile hovered on the curving lips.

"Didn't know you were awake!" Mark reddened at the recollection of the
lurid language.

"Praise be to Antares. My extracts ... where are they, where are my
quarters ... let's get out of here!" Palanth could think of nothing but
his priceless collection. "Without them I'd have to condition myself to
pollution!"

"You're not very complimentary, Martian!" Doctor Fortun chided, her
hazel eyes flickered open and she sat up. The girl surveyed Mark Lynn
with calm, clear eyes. "What, no violence, not even recriminations?
What an utterly erroneous conception the Council has about you
Internationals," she observed, and waited for Mark to speak.

"We don't indulge in futilities, Doctor Fortun," Mark replied. "But
perhaps you can give us an inkling of what all this is about; I think
we deserve at least that much, Scientist!"

The girl seemed to meditate in silence. An odd, half fearful, half
ashamed expression flitted across her features. "Yes, you deserve a
great deal more than I can offer you, Spacer Lynn. But I'm afraid I
can only give you another unpleasant experience to chalk up against
me. It's all part of a pattern agreed upon even before you and your
companion arrived on Terra. It was thought that only your influence on
Internationals and Philosophers could persuade them to evacuate--they'd
believe you, where they would never trust the Council. It was necessary
that you be seen on Terra--when you entered the Council building, it
was visi-screened in detail throughout the World State; your encounter
with the attacker on the street, was seen by countless millions. It
had to be established that you were on Terra, and in touch with the
Council, so that your audio-visi-screen broadcast should be considered
_authentic_."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But I didn't broadcast, my orders from the Council were to promise
all Internationals, Philosophers and the Ruralians--in fact, all
dissenters--a habitable planet to which they would be transported in
sleep-freeze, together with all metallic substances, seeds, plasms,
drugs, food, in fact everything required for their normal existence
for a five-year cycle--free from interference by the Government of the
World State--provided they agreed to furnish the World State with an
equal amount of materials within one hundred years. I never believed
for an instant that the Council would relinquish control, the absolute
lack of weapons, or of machinery to fashion them, was in itself a proof
of intentions beyond the letter of the offer. I meant to refuse to
broadcast to the irreconcilables my personal guarantee as demanded by
the Council. Besides, I know of no such planet."

"That was why I took you to Havanol," Doctor Fortun nodded sadly. "The
Council anticipated your refusal--your psychological data easily
told them that--and since at Havanol only those with special permit
could enter, the guests were specially chosen, so that none without
the scientific circle knew you were there, thus your broadcast became
authentic in the minds of the dissenters. You noticed there were no
visi-screens at Havanol, under the excuse that nothing that did not
contribute to pleasure could be permitted."

"But I tell you, I didn't broadcast!" Mark was becoming exasperated.
"You keep on harping on that!"

"No, but your double did," the girl's voice was opaque. "Turn on the
visi-screen in the Spacer, and you'll learn the truth. Everything that
has been visi-screened on Terra since your arrival, was recorded in
the Spacer's telecast--simply select the broadcasts of the date and
hour when we went to Havanol, and it will be shown on the visi-screen
panel in the Commander's quarters. Your double--part resemblance,
part surgico-synthesis even imitates your voice within one-tenth of
a microgram of its tonal quality. Detection was beyond human power,
Spacer Lynn."

"If I ever get my hands on him...!" Mark's fingers clenched
spasmodically as his face went dark with passion.

"You never will," the girl said sadly, "nor on the double who took the
place of Palanth ... even that detail was taken care of, perfumes and
all," her smile was bitter. "By now, both have been converted to power
reserve, their usefulness having ended." There was an uncomfortable
pause, the silence becoming oppressive in the luxurious helio-plane of
the girl.

"Who's the Commander of the Interplanetary Spacer?" Mark asked at last,
his agile mind already seeking means to circumvent the snare.

"_You!_" was the laconic reply.

"I? Has the Council gone mad? Do they think that after what's happened
they can place a spacer in my power, and still command my allegiance? I
can lose their damned Patrol in uncharted space ... _and I will!_"

"No, Spacer Lynn, you'll have to find a better, a more definitive
solution than that. You see, you promised millions a planet of freedom,
where they could build a new civilization patterned after the old
American Constitution, but on an even greater, a wider plane of being.
You promised them freedom from the Council, and a chance to develop
untrammelled not only their minds but their emotions as well; you do
not know it, but your double was trained as a great actor, years of
conditioning and training taught him to ring the changes of emotion on
human souls not deadened by the controls. Reports showed that millions
wept, that a tidal wave of joy coursed through their ranks sending
them pouring like a human cataract into the awaiting spacers, and
sleep-freeze, Mark!"


                                  IV

"Have you the figures on how many agreed to evacuate?" Mark's face was
white and tense. Palanth was silent, immobile, in the hieratic attitude
of Martians in deep thought.

"Roughly, three hundred million. I received the secret report just
before we left Havanol."

"Where are they now?" Mark forced himself to ask.

"Travelling in space under robot control. When they arrive within the
orbit of Europa, they will remain in an orbit calculated to parallel
the trajectory of our Universe in space, in relation to the orbit of
Europa, so that they will be like satellites of that planet. You will
find an instrument in your quarters, which when operated activates a
vibrational beam of such potency that it will contact the robot control
of those spacers, causing them to land on the planet at various places
and intervals. The major task will be to administer the antidote to
sleep-freeze, but as each dissenter's awakened, he or she can join in
awakening the rest. Your task is to build a civilization of Europa, a
civilization with all the technical science of Terra, and to thoroughly
develop that planet."

"But why Europa? It's a bleak world of cold and bare rocks, lit
by a hellish crimson radiation from Jupiter's red spot, deserted,
inhospitable...."

"But habitable, and rich in minerals, a large world with which to
replenish a ravaged earth. The moon, our Luna, will go, Mark. The
Council plans to eventually move Europa from its orbit to take the
place of our Moon! What happened to you when you crashed there, is
known to the Council; they inspected your ship and found it had been
expertly repaired with rare metals and superb skill. By spy-ray they
obtained enough out of your mind to obtain a pattern. You didn't have
reserve oxides with you on that trip, yet oxides had been used in
repairing your ship; an assortment of special tools were needed to make
the repairs--tools you didn't have with you, yet the work had been done
with a skill that surpassed that of our best technicians. And, finally,
it was established that your skull had been crushed from behind, yet,
you arrived in perfect health, the bone fracture entirely healed and
with _thrice the energy_ reserve of a normal man! as a psychologist, I
worked on the report. It was startling!"

"I see. And if I refuse to be part of their plan?" Mark's voice had the
flat tones of a man condemned to death.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You will be sentenced to power reserve, and Europa taken by force.
A scientist will be placed in charge and armed proctors brought to
preserve obedience. The Council hopes such measures will not be
necessary--it will mean a constant struggle with the dissenters, and
Venus and Mars might take advantage of the situation to begin the
ancient wars all over again. That is why they are willing to give
you a free rein. Ultimately of course, they envision the planet as a
satellite of the Earth, its population under complete Council control."

"I'll not live to see that tragic day!" Mark's voice held infinite
conviction.

"Neither will I," seconded Palanth.

"I suppose you're the direct representative of the Council?" Mark asked
the girl. "You'll keep them informed of everything we do!" There was
contempt in his deep, bitter voice.

"Don't spare my feelings!" Doctor Fortun smiled with a quiet sadness.
"I've told everything but what the Supreme Council instructed me to
say. I was to tell you another story ... to play enchantress and keep
you lulled, if necessary, in a fool's paradise. But controls one, six
and fifteen never quite worked with me. I've had to feign a lot and
mask my mind lest I be condemned to power control. We Psychologists are
very few--it's our only defense. Those we instruct in the techniques
of the mind, must join our guild and swear allegiance _to us_! Why do
you think I arranged to come on this trip? For love of the Council?

"I'm a woman, Mark! I want a home instead of a clinic and a husband
instead of an order for fertilization. I want to experience the rapture
that is love and have children. I came because I thought the very
qualities in you the Council means to utilize might be the means of
circumventing their purpose and ... and make us free!"

An incredulous look of surprise spread over Mark's face. For an instant
he wondered if the Machiavellian tactics of the Council could extend
even this far. But with a determined mental effort he probed the girl's
mind and found it was unguarded. There was no trickery, no deception
in her mind, even as the tears that blurred the lovely hazel eyes were
genuine.

"Venus be praised!" He exclaimed fervently, and it was all he could do
to refrain from taking her in his arms and kissing away the tears that
were rolling down her cheeks.

"She speaks the truth," Palanth said telepathically, there was a trace
of embarrassment in his thoughts. "She will be a most valuable ally in
our fight."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mark smiled, his face had lighted as if a profound grief had been
removed. "You already know we'll fight, eh, Palanth?"

"But of course, O Terran of dubious intellect!" The Martian said
grandly and waved the sadly crumpled kerchief now almost devoid of its
overpowering perfume. He was himself again, eager for the intellectual
struggle against overwhelming odds.

"What sort of intelligence is there on Europa?" Doctor Fortun asked,
once more in control of herself.

"Exquisite beings with a mental power beyond our own, but resembling
nothing human," Mark replied.

"Let's leave this helio. I'm anxious to inspect the Spacer; I've never
commanded a ship of this size."

"How many are aboard and what are they?" Palanth inquired. "I hope
they're Internationals!"

"I don't know the figures, Palanth, but I'm certain at least ninety
percent are Internationals. I do know at least five hundred scientists
of various categories are aboard. They'll be the first to be awakened
from sleep-freeze, for at journey's end, they take charge."

"And who's going to give them the antidote?" Mark asked silkily.

"Robots, timed to administer it the moment we land on Europa. They have
orders to direct resettlement without interfering too much--and of
course, they are the eyes and ears of the Council; they are the only
ones who have the necessary equipment for interplanetary communication,
as you'll find out!"

"I think they need a long, long rest, don't you Palanth?" Mark was
smiling.

"Indeed, O protector of the martyred!" Palanth exclaimed
grandiloquently. "They must be tired, very tired ... of anything but
sleep!"

"I've never seen these robots," Mark Lynn thought aloud. "Are there
many, Doctor Fortun?"

"Approximately fifty--more than necessary, but they're to be used on
landing by the scientists. These robots, Mark, are humanoid in their
mental processes, able to perform tasks too difficult for human beings,
especially in the mathematical field. They are created secretly, for
the peoples of the World State must not know of their invention--there
would be no need for labor if they were to be produced in sufficient
numbers; production of necessities and luxuries could be increased a
thousand fold, and ... it would destroy the present social philosophy
of the World State. It would remove the _credo_ of achievement, it
would abolish the standards of rigid thrift and conservation in a world
of undreamed plenty, and finally, with robots able to solve the most
intricate problems the absolute need for guidance would be neutralized.

"The Supreme Council had these robots built for their exclusive use.
Only one thousand exist, we've been allotted fifty because Europa's
been acknowledged as a major achievement."

"Can they be neutralized--the robots, I mean?" Mark was thinking at a
furious pace.

"These robots are impressionless, blank, so to speak. Their only
motivation is to administer the sleep-freeze antidote to the
scientists aboard. After that, the scientists can direct them to
required tasks, and each problem as it is solved by the robot, remains
in its mechanical nero-pattern for repetition if necessary. They're
wholly metallic, almost indestructible. _Whoever uses them first, is
their master!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was then that Mark unable to restrain himself, bent down and kissed
her. "It occurs to me," he said very gently, "that I've never known
your social name."

"Lucero," the girl whispered. "It's an ancient, almost forgotten name
of the romance languages now lost."

"The evening star!" Mark breathed. "No wonder you're golden...."
Forgetting Palanth he was about to take her in his arms, when the
latter coughed with the dry, hacking sound of the Martians.

"Are we going into the Spacer, or have we changed our minds?"
he inquired of the universe in general. "Terra's being wrecked,
we're shanghaied aboard a sleep-freeze coffin polluted with half a
thousand scientists and fifty inimical robots; we are headed for
an unexplored moon of Jupiter, in the mesh of a gigantic plot, and
three hundred million victims are dependent on our wits ... yet two
highly specialized humans on whom the fate of a universe depends, are
oblivious of it all like two Phobos-struck kaladonis! Arrgh ... what a
race, O Mind of ultimate understanding!" He bowed at the mention of the
Martian all highest--the nameless God.

Both Lucero and Mark came to, faces crimson, smiling sheepishly.
Together they left the helio-plane and went down an emergency ladder
into the interior of the vast interplanetary Spacer.

Within the _Stellar Virgin_ the silence was intense--the silence of
a dead city. In the luxurious quarters provided for the scientists,
the latter lay soundless and inert in the almost ultimate oblivion
of sleep-freeze. They were ten in number to each mammoth, cavernous
stateroom, and in the very center, upon a throne-like dais, motionless
and life-like, a gigantic robot sat immobile, awaiting the end of the
trip, when for the first time since they were fashioned, they would
perform the only task impressed upon their virgin brains.

Mark Lynn went silently from cabin to cabin, to all outward
appearances inspecting the ship, but inwardly, his mental processes
geared to the apex of their wide-awakedness, grappled endlessly
with the problem of the robots. If the scientists awakened from the
sleep-freeze thanks to the antidotes, they'd instantly command the
robots for their initial tasks and thereafter they'd be masters of that
incalculable source of power. With the robots under their command, the
scientists would be masters indeed, able to dispose of the machinery
within the Spacer at their will, to manufacture more machinery, build
weapons and in short, control Europa.

He thought of the thousands of Internationals in the Spacer's hold,
and his head ached with the sustained effort. It was a little thing
that gave him the clue, the intense pain at the base of his brain was
like a constant hammering, and Mark considered an infinitesimal dose of
Vanadol. It would banish the pain as if by magic.

"Vanadol!" He exclaimed electrified. "By Io, Vanadol is the answer! How
much Vanadol have we got aboard? Palanth, search the medical stores and
find how much of the stuff we've brought along ... hurry!" Mark's eyes
were sparkling, green as emeralds.

Lucero regarded him curiously. "What's so important about Vanadol,
Mark?"

"The scientists must not awaken until we have the robots under our
command. By giving each scientist a heavy dose of Vanadol, enough for
weeks of sleep, we circumvent the antidote for sleep-freeze. It's
this way: when we land, the mechanism within each robot timed for
release on arrival, activates them for their one and only task, the
administration of anti-sleep freeze, but since each scientist will
have been thoroughly drugged with Vanadol, they'll be released from
sleep-freeze, but will continue to sleep under the powerful narcotic.
The robots then will be given such commands as we decide on, and will
be entirely answerable to us three only. They will facilitate immensely
the task of making Europa truly habitable, and since they are almost
indestructible, will be the most valuable of all weapons. Let's get
busy, if there's enough Vanadol, we've won the first round after all!"

Presently the Martian returned, "There's tons of the stuff," he
announced. Mark had to explain all over again.


                                  VI

"Panadur!" Mark Lynn breathed softly as he glanced at the stark
grandeur of Europa from one of the glassite ports. It was night. The
macabre glow of Jupiter's Red Spot enveloped the satellite in a red
opaline haze that made the vari-colored cliffs gleam with twisted
flames in deep crimson and orange and purple. Over all, an eternal
mantle of snow lay like frozen spume. Mark opened his hand and looked
at the jewel he held. It was pulsing now with a fiery radiance.

The great spacer was lying in the cup-shaped hollow of the immense
valley, resting on the blanketing snow, just as once before, a
tiny cruiser had rested crippled in the fantastic Europan night.
But it was different then. Mark remembered his chilling awe at the
Dantesque panorama, and his shock when Jim Brannigan had found life
on Europa, the strange, exquisitely furred bipeds with slender arms
and six-fingered hands. He had thought them animals then, despite the
bright intelligence shining in the beryl-eyes of the creatures. But
he'd learned differently in time, when Jim had crushed his skull from
behind, and the Panadurs had saved him by absorbing Jim's life-energy
and transferring it to him while he lay unconscious. That was the
miracle, that the metabolism of the Panadurs could absorb energy from
any source and transfer it at will. They were telepathic, and their
leader had given him the jewel to facilitate communication if Mark ever
returned.

It was like the remembrance of a dream, to have the past pass in review
through his mind as he methodically donned his allurium suit, and
turned on the heating unit.

"I'm going out ... alone," he said firmly to Palanth and Lucero. "I
owe the inhabitants of this world a debt, and whether we remain or
not, is for them to decide. You see this star-like jewel? That's the
Star of Panadur; by concentrating my thoughts, it acts as a sort of
transmitting crystal and will make it possible for me to reach the
leader of the Panadurs. I will return." He smiled reassuringly into
Lucero's distraught face, and Palanth's scowling one.

"Why can't I accompany you?" The Martian growled. "Since when must I be
left behind in the face of danger? Am I an old woman, Mark?"

"But there's no danger, Palanth! It's a promise I gave that never,
never would I bring any intelligent creature to Panadur without their
approval. This world's a treasure house, and the Panadurs are a
treasure in themselves, for their fur is finer than anything in the
Universe, including Neptune's moons. I know of a vast cavern floored
with oxide, and cliffs of pure metal. Europa, or rather, Panadur, is
an inexhaustible source of power! It remains with them--the Panadurs,
whether we remain or not." He smiled at them again, almost pleadingly,
for them to understand, and without another word, stepped through the
air-locks and was gone. They could see his tall figure in its gleaming
sheath outlined in the unearthly glow until it disappeared in the
distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mark Lynn let his mind be passive. Contact with the alien intelligence
had been made; the jewel in his hand was now a burst of radiance, as
he traversed the valley in the direction of the cavern country, and at
last he was before the gigantic mass of cliffs he sought. He entered
a low, gallery-like cave that wound downwards into the bowels of the
cliff, following the twisting turns as the gallery widened and the
luminescent walls became even more luminous, until at the end of a turn
a burst of radiance met his eyes and he was once more in the grotto of
titanic proportions lighted by the glaucous radiance, like the green
light beneath the waters of a shallow sea. At his feet, crystalline and
powdery, the entire floor of the grotto was covered by oxide as far as
his eyes could see. Mark had the odd sensation of living a part of his
life over again. He waited in silence.

Mark knew that thousands of burning beryl eyes were peering at him
from concealed openings in the walls; he felt the mental rapport with
their leader that was rapidly absorbing from his mind all that could
be obtained. The wait was interminable. At last, a silvery-grey,
furred being, was before Mark, seemingly having come from nowhere. Its
exquisite triangular face, with the wide-set beryl eyes and broad
forehead, was startlingly human.

"Greetings, twice come!" the faint shadow of a smile seemed to cross
its features as it telepathed the thought. "When your space machine
landed, we feared the worst--but we are reassured. Your mind tells me
that countless of your kind hover asleep over our world. What would you
have us do?"

"Your permission to remain," Mark sent the telepathic reply. And
then, in a welling flood of thought, poured out the story of what had
happened on Terra, the resettlement of two-thirds of the population on
other planets, and finally, their abhorrence of their Terran Government
and its methods.

"Allow us, O Panadur, to build a new civilization on your world, a
civilization where we may achieve happiness in freedom. We bring over
two thousand Space machines laden with everything we can possibly
need, and millions of eager beings. We will transform your world into
a Paradise such as you have never known. Weather control stations will
give Panadur freedom from cold and darkness; cities will be reared in
beauty, and to you, we guarantee forever, freedom from attack; for
if we do not remain on Panadur, whom the Terrans call Europa, the
Council of Terra will never rest until it has been subjugated by its
interstellar fleet. Your mines will be ravaged, your people will be
enslaved, blood redder than the angry spot of the greater world will
flow in rivers."

"And how can you prevent them from doing so, in any event?" the Panadur
asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We will make your world impregnable. Each one of the Spacers that
brings our people here, will be turned into a fighting cruiser; the
minds of the greatest scientists of Terra will be utilized for our
advancement ... and, these scientists, five-hundred of them, now
asleep, will be delivered into your care as hostages, together with
fifteen robots, placed under your command. We will ensure your safety,
in return for your scientific aid. We know you have no tools; even to
repair a small rent on my cruiser when I crashed here before, took
hundreds and hundreds of your people and the tools I had, plus weeks of
work! The result was magnificent, but I know how handicapped you were.
My robots will build you machines of power, and we will give you that
which you may choose from our ships. In insuring your safety, we ensure
ours. One for all, and all for one, O Panadur. Fate has decreed that
your world is in danger--shall we join forces?"

"It is true, Terran. We have achieved mental mastery, but we've
never conquered our environment. Our hands," he extended fragile,
six-fingered hands without thumbs, "are hardly suited to fashion tools.
But with machines that create other machines ... and metal beings such
as I saw in your mind...." A far away look came into beryl eyes as the
Panadur leader paused.

"Let your mind be passive that I may contact and transmit to my people,
they must know the entire story."

Mark complied, and instantly, as if a tremendous force had struck him,
he reeled in darkness, consciousness fled. He never knew that not far
behind him another being fell unconscious also. It was Palanth. The
Martian had followed unseen, unwilling to let Mark risk the unknown by
himself.

The hours slid in silence under the unchanging luminescence of the
primordial cavern, now filled with countless Panadurs in hieratic
attitudes.

At last one of the beings stood erect and made a silent motion; waves
of pure energy began to course through Mark Lynn and Palanth. But when
they awoke, all the Panadurs were gone save their leader. Mark dazedly
stretched his long limbs and looked at the Martian uncomprehendingly,
then slowly remembrance came.

"So, you did follow me after all? Disobedience of orders in an
uncharted world--do you know the penalty imposed by the Council?"

"May the Council swelter in Venus' deepest swamp!" Palanth spat
irreverently. "Didn't intend to take chances ... your life's too
valuable, O scourge of the Planets!" Under a grandiloquent manner he
tried to hide the mixture of bewilderment and awe with which he gazed
at the placid Panadur Leader. He still had not quite decided what had
happened to him.

The Panadur in turn, gazed inscrutably at the being from Mars, its
delicate nose wrinkled slightly at Palanth's mingled fragrances. What
went on in the Panadur's prodigious mind was unknown to the two men,
for the three-foot tall Leader's mind was not in contact with theirs.
The faintest hint of a smile hovered over his placid features. At last
he began to send:

"The tragedy of your world, 'twice come' is only less startling than
that of your Government--your leaders are a paradox! With a philosophy
of achievement they conceal the greatest achievement of all--men
of metal to enrich your lives; with the goal of conservation and
economy, they waste the most precious of all things--Life! From such a
Government, we can expect but destruction.

"Yet, your people reared without controls are dissenters.... I fear
they might not accept our guidance, that at some future time their will
to power might create an even greater problem to be solved. However,
there's no alternative now. We accept the fifteen men of metal, O
Terran, but above all we must have the 'Sleeping Ones' whose minds we
will study. _We Panadurs must guard against a future paradox._ Your
people," he paused and gazed from Mark to Palanth, "may remain."

The mental rapport was broken, and the furred leader disappeared into
the depths of the cavern, leaving Mark and Palanth to retrace their
steps to the _Stellar Virgin_.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the first time in her highly-trained life, Lucero felt the full
impact of loneliness as the Europan night swallowed Mark and Palanth.
At last she chose action rather than endure the atavistic emotions
that had begun to grip her. And methodically she flitted silently from
compartment to luxurious compartment where the scientists dreamt their
drugged sleep. Carefully she scanned their faces and was struck by one
overwhelming fact--this was no collection of second rate scientists
for the solution of routine problems, but an assemblage of the first
order, now inert and helpless in the coma of Vanadol, presided over by
a sphinx-like robot.

The last compartment was much larger than the preceding ones, and by
far more luxurious; during the previous inspection, Mark, Palanth and
herself had had no time to come this far, and the girl was startled at
its complex magnificence. Equipped for research work, it was a miracle
of scientific devices, from energizing cabinets to a bewildering array
of surgical apparatus and tools.

Only one man occupied it, and on the raised dais an immobile robot. But
the face that Lucero bent over made her gasp with involuntary fear. It
was the face of Verdugo, the infamous cerebral surgeon whose gifted
fingers could change an entire ego with a few movements of the atomic
scalpel.

The sight of the dreaded scientist in their midst was startling
enough, but what made the girl turn ashen was the sudden flutter of
the surgeon's lids. A painful groan came from his lips, as he trembled
and opened his eyes. The sight of Lucero bending over him seemed to
reassure him, for he smiled faintly.

Behind Lucero the towering robot glided noiselessly to peer at his
awakening master. The girl was unaware it had moved.

"Shall I bring a measure of Thassalian, Master?" The metal man's richly
modulated voice rose without the slightest mechanical inflection.

For one shattering instant, the girl felt as if her reason was taking
wings. She remained utterly still as if in the grip of paralyzing
hysteria. But her training saved her. Slowly she turned and gazed into
the strangely human features of the metal giant. At close quarters she
noted the smooth beryloid construction of the superb outer shell; the
indestructible optics of non-abradable, chemically inert crystal with
microscopic adjustments. But most important of all, she sensed that
here was a brain which had attained full growth--powerful, experienced
and ... organic!

"Yes, bring me some Thassalian, _Alcoran_," the surgeon assented
wearily and half-rose from his couch with a sigh. "The sleep-freeze
reaction is far worse than I'd anticipated!"

"The antidotes have been given--two antidotes Master!" The super-robot
answered instantly.

"Two! For the love of Terra! If it took a double antidote I must have
been given a dose big enough for a Hellacorium...."

"Doctor Verdugo," Lucero interrupted purposely, now entirely calm.
"There's life ... intelligent life on Europa." She didn't intend that
Alcoran should have a chance to disclose what he must have known.

"Yes?" Doctor Verdugo was all attention. "Bring the Thassalian!" He
waved an imperious hand at Alcoran, "and don't stand there like an
effigy! Must your orders be given twice?" He glared at the robot.
"Proceed, Doctor Fortun. Intelligent life ... what's it like?"

"Humanoid, but furred against Europa's eternal cold. They seem to be
telepathic!"

"Telepathic.... Remarkable! I must have a specimen without delay. Have
my scientists been awakened?"

"We've just arrived, Doctor, they're being given the antidote now,"
Lucero was once again her coldly efficient self.

"Your Thassalian, Master." Alcoran extended the small glass and waited
while the scientist drank, closing his eyes against the ecstasy
imparted by the liquor.

"Help me up!" The girl complied stifling a grimace of distaste as his
arm encircled her waist. Verdugo stood on his feet with the girl's
help, weaving a little, and finally recovered his balance.

"Telepathic ..." he murmured, the light of some fiendish purpose
gleaming in the coal black eyes. "Order some of my scientists to secure
a specimen immediately, Doctor Fortun!" The girl bowed.

"Master ..." Alcoran's voice was insistent. "You must...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Silence! Never use the word 'must' to me, never!" Verdugo had drawn
himself to his full height. "Ever since I synthetized his brain, he's
got the idea that _he_ owns me! I had to order him not to stir from
his seat during the entire voyage ... I wouldn't have had any peace
otherwise," he smiled at the girl and waved toward the super-robot. "I
synthetized his brain from three of the finest intelligences on Terra!"

"You mean you transferred three brains to Alcoran's helmet?" She
asked aghast. "But didn't they retain their memories ... their
personalities...?"

"Of course not, my dear. I never do things by halves. And now I must
inform the Council we have arrived, and the discovery of life on
Europa." He walked toward the immense metal wall and his slender hand
reached out to touch a spot. Silently, the huge metal partition rose
upwards revealing a hidden alcove in the very center of which, taking
up about two-thirds of the available space stood a gigantic machine.

"A Tele-Magnum!" Lucero breathed.

"Alcoran, contact Venus ... the Council Hall," Doctor Verdugo ordered
his super-robot. The latter came noiselessly forward. Once seated at
the console of the incredibly complex mechanism, his agile finger ran
without hesitation over the banked keys, after pressing a master switch
that lighted serried ranks of powerful tubes, with an eerie violet
light.

"Give my orders to my scientists, Doctor Fortun--it is imperative I
have an Europan specimen immediately." Doctor Verdugo made a curious
grimace that accentuated the evil expression stamped on his features,
then he nodded in dismissal.

With a great effort Lucero quieted her swirling thoughts. She had
no doubt but that the super-robot knew about the administration of
Vanadol. If Verdugo learned of it, he would instantly report it to the
Council, and at least part of the fleet would come to investigate.
Against the fleet of Terra they were powerless.

"I'll not deserve this world and freedom if I fail now!" She told
herself. White-faced and grim she began to carry out a plan that
was slowly growing in her mind out of sheer desperation. Once again
she retraced her steps from compartment to compartment, and began
motivating each robot, commanding them to administer the sleep-freeze
to the men and women in the lower tiers. One robot she left, the one in
the compartment next to that of Doctor Verdugo--she had a task for that
one.

When all the robots save one had been sent below, she went back and
entered the next to the last compartment.

"Arise and come with me," she ordered the robot. "I'm your master, you
will obey my orders implicitly." The metal monster stirred, as if some
hidden mechanism had come to life at the vibration of her words. It
arose on frictionless bearings and stood glittering before her; she
opened its breast and inspected the masterly work that had been done
on the control panel; its eyes, lit now by the glow of intelligence
seemed uncannily human. Lucero knew this specimen didn't possess the
Machiavellian intelligence of Alcoran--only Verdugo could accomplish
such a satanic piece of work--but it was larger and more powerful than
Alcoran, the latter being a specialized product for intricate mental
work.

Resolutely Lucero marched to Doctor Verdugo's compartment, followed
by the fearful metal servant. The scientist had already completed
preparations for a vivisection when the girl entered, and was bending
over a multitude of helixes of finest wire of sensitized silver.

An array of electric and atomic-powered instruments from tiny,
silver-like scalpels, to razor-sharp saws gleamed on tables at his
sides; fulgurants cast ultra-visibility light upon the white-swathed
couch where the victim was to be strapped alive. Verdugo did not hear
them enter, but Alcoran did! Instantly the super-robot gave a warning
cry at the sight of his metal counterpart and stood before the girl and
robot like an impassable wall.

"Attack!" Lucero did not waste words. "Destroy it!" She pointed to the
slightly crouching Alcoran.


                                  VII

With a blasting roar the girl's robot lunged, and Alcoran sprang
forward to meet the attack. It was a nerve shattering impact, like that
of two armored pre-historic monsters engaged in a death-struggle.

Behind the metal men, both Lucero and Verdugo maneuvered for position,
their atomo-pistols blazing a path through scientific instruments and
furnishings as they fired over and around the struggling robots. The
awesome din of the gigantic battle was deafening, as the compartment
was slowly converted into shambles.

Once Alcoran managed to grip the leg of Lucero's robot and the latter
went crashing against the vivisection table, instantly pulverizing
it. But with a leap that carried it half across the vast alcove,
the robot charged Alcoran like a battering-ram and driving him into
the Tele-Magnum room with the impetus of his leap. The explosion of
shattered tubes and crashing metal, the singing hum of ripped berlyloy
and pulverized plastuco, was drowned by the clang and thud of the
gigantic bodies as they strove to wrench each other apart.

And now, only the litter-strewn floor was between Lucero and Verdugo,
the latter oozing blood from a seared shoulder where an atomoblast had
touched. Deliberately she aimed her atomo-pistol, even as the surgeon
simultaneously raised his, but her blast only disintegrated a fulgurant
on the ceiling, while Verdugo's fatal pencil of violet light speared
an empty spot, for at that instant the hurtling form of Alcoran spewed
from the alcove, barely grazing the girl, but such was the terrific
force of his passage that it knocked her spinning against the wall
where she collapsed.

Behind Alcoran, hurtling like an avenging angel, Lucero's robot came
charging with but one thought--destruction.

"Alcoran!" It was Verdugo shouting hoarsely at his creation, now
spread-eagled on the floor. "Run, follow me!" He dived for the
passageway as Alcoran, damaged as he was, his brain shaken by the
terrific concussion arose and sped after him.

At the sight of the fallen girl, Lucero's robot checked his rush,
hesitated and finally bent over her. He raised the still form as if
it were a feather and stood for a moment as if trying to cerebrate.
Finally it deposited her with infinite care on the couch where
Verdugo had slept. Then it began to search what cabinets had not been
destroyed, for a stimulant.

It found the decanter of Thassalian, that miraculously had escaped
destruction; gently opening the girl's mouth the robot poured a few
drops down her throat. Just then Mark Lynn and Palanth burst into the
room. Shamble was before their eyes. Mark went white with apprehension
and leaped to Lucero's side, but the robot placed a formidable metal
hand against the earthman's chest and growled:

"Back, Terran! Come no nearer!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Palanth slid toward them atomo-pistol in hand, just as Mark drew his.
But at that moment Lucero opened her eyes and groaned softly.

"Mark!" There was a universe of gladness in her cry. She waved a limp
hand toward the robot. "This is Mark Lynn and the other's Palanth--your
masters also, obey them."

The robot stepped back and Mark kneeled at her side. "Are you hurt, my
darling?" Lucero shook her head and tried to smile.

Palanth turned to the robot. "Tell us what occurred in detail," he
commanded. Thus it was that from the metal lips they heard the entire
story with photographic accuracy, as far as he had seen.

"I might have known they'd have one last counter-check," Mark
reproached himself. "I should never have left you!"

"Who could have foreseen this?" Lucero raised herself on an elbow.
"Even I had no idea that Verdugo was with us, not to speak of his
bringing one of the only two ultra-specialized super-robots in
existence. We'll have to work very fast, Mark! There's nothing,
literally nothing, that Alcoran cannot accomplish in a scientific
way, provided he has the materials--Verdugo may even have him build a
Tele-Magnum and communicate with the Council!"

"But where's he going to get materials, my dear? A Tele-Magnum is a
tall order!"

"I don't know.... But I do know that Verdugo has the mind of a fiend
and the skill of a genius, and Alcoran's a triple-synthetized brain,
and under Verdugo's control!"

"We'll deal with the surgeon," Palanth's voice was deadly.

"And we shall deal with Verdugo and his scientists," came the quiet
telepathic thought.

Both Mark Lynn and the Martian turned seeking its source, and saw
framed in the doorway to the alcove, the silver-furred figure of the
Panadur leader.

"That was the agreement," the Panadur added after a pause. "Thousands
of my people await without to carry him away."

Lucero's robot took a step forward tentatively and then gazed
questioningly at its mistress, and suddenly a wave of energy from the
Panadur stopped it dead in its tracks.

"The agreement will be honored," Mark acquiesced, "but one has escaped,
O Panadur, and Klonos knows where in that maze of rocks and caverns
he's now hiding with his super-robot."

"That's our problem, Terran. The agreement was five-hundred, and
five-hundred scientists shall we have."

"You will need the fifteen robots immediately," Mark said thoughtfully.
"Lucero, my dear, only you can command the robots, so place fifteen
under the Panadur's command ... are you able to walk?"

"Of course, I was only stunned." She rose from the couch and left the
compartment followed by her ever-watchful metal man. The Panadur seemed
to melt away as it glided into the hall.

"And now," Mark addressed Palanth, "we must begin to land the
spacers, I have the radio beam. The sooner everyone has been given
the sleep-freeze antidote, the better. Internationals first, they
are our best fighters, just in case the Council has another trick up
its sleeve. Then we must find some way of increasing the spacers'
resistance to the disintegrating beam--the alloy used on robots' case
shell is the clue--they're impervious to atom-blast. Weather stations
next--robots to be detailed on that and machinery stations to turn out
mechanical robots and more machinery ... tools, weapons for defense ...
we're really fighting for time."

"I know. But even then, I can think of nothing that can stop Terra's
fleet if it ever comes to Europa. It's practically invulnerable, or
Venus and my own Mars would have shaken off the Council's domination
long ago!"

"I have an idea Palanth! It's far from clear, but if it works.... It
has to do with radiant energy--even the Fleet couldn't withstand that."

"Radiant energy! Have you lost your mind? Who can control a radiant
energy vortex? Besides, we have no means of releasing it. Stop dreaming
Mark!"

"It isn't a dream," Mark shrugged wide shoulders. "But come, let's take
a look at the scientific exodus--I'm certainly glad to be rid of them,
hope the Panadurs can cope with that tribe."

"What do you suppose the Panadurs _really_ want with them, Mark?"

"Probe their minds of course. Panadurs have surpassing intellects,
but they have neither tools nor scientific techniques. I suppose they
want to learn all they can from our 'sleeping beauties,' in order to
achieve their own inventions. Panadurs are thumbless, unable to make
tools, thus their development has been purely along mental lines. Since
their metabolism requires no food, as they are able to absorb energy
_directly_, they have by-passed all domestic arts and sciences."

The steadily increasing noise from the tiers below, had now become a
cacophonous din, as more and more Internationals came to life.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Panadur Leader bending over a scientist for the nth time, probed,
delved and searched the innermost recesses of the quiescent brain under
the scalpel, but at last he straightened with a baffled expression.

The Europan cavern was a vast catacomb under the glaucous radiance of
the radio-active walls that spread a green stela on the faces of the
sleeping scientists, flanking the walls in lengthening rows.

The Panadur knew what had been done, he had even tried the delicate
process, but the secret of transferring a living brain, minus its
personality and the seat of entity, remained unsolved.

Not one of the scientists brought from the _Stellar Virgin_ possessed
the secret technique, and many Panadurs had sacrificed themselves in
vain as their brains died under the atomo-knife.

Presently the Panadur Leader raised his delicate face, the brilliance
of his eyes increased as he turned to face the tunnel that led to the
cavern's entrance, then the single thought flashed out: "_Enter!_"

It wasn't long until the silence was broken by the tread of heavy-shod
feet crunching the glittering oxide crystals, and Mark entered followed
by Palanth. The awful responsibility for three-hundred million lives
and the transfiguration of a world, had left its mark on the faces of
the two men.

"We bring bad news, Panadur!" Mark said bluntly, in his preoccupation
he unconsciously resorted to speech. "One of the space vessels has
been looted of vital supplies that can be used for the construction
of an interplanetary radio. Verdugo took the opportunity to steal its
radio installations with the aid of his robot, while the passengers
celebrated their arrival on Europa. If Verdugo builds a Tele-Magnum and
contacts the Council, it means War!"

"And war," Palanth seconded, "means the Terran Fleet, against which we
are not prepared!"

"When were the supplies stolen?"

"Three revolutions of Panadur on its axis ago--we learned of it today.
Enough time for Alcoran to have built an instrument powerful enough to
contact the Council on Venus."

"The blame is partly ours," the Panadur telepathed sadly. "We should
have captured Verdugo long ago. But it meant wasting lives to imprison
that madman ... but now, we have no recourse, the scientist and his
metal servant will be brought in. It will solve another problem," he
added thoughtfully. "This!" He indicated the trepanned cranium of the
scientist on the operating table.

"If you need them, Panadur, you may have every robot in our
possession," Mark offered.

For an instant the nearest thing to a smile the two men had ever seen,
crossed the features of the strange being of Europa.

"Panadur thanks you, Terran. But we already have built over a
thousand robots, half of them have mechanical brains and can be
radio-controlled, but the other half, the important one requires a
knowledge of Verdugo's technique for transplanting organic brains to
metal men. He shall provide that ... personally!"

"Once long ago," Mark spoke meditatively, "you slew an enemy of mine
with a volume of energy like a bolt of lightning, then you somehow
transferred the latent energy of that being to me. _Could that have
been radiant energy?_" He paused. "Could it, O Panadur?"

But the Europan had abruptly interposed an impenetrable barrier between
his mind and that of the two men. With an imperious gesture he pointed
to the exit of the cavern. Mark and Palanth gazed at each other in
bewilderment, finally they left in silence.

As soon as they were lost to view, the cavern began to be filled by a
steady stream of thousands upon thousands of silvery Panadurs silently
filing in from the inner caverns.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What in Phobos happened to him?" Mark thought aloud, trying to
understand the incomprehensible conduct of the Panadur Leader.

"Don't ask me riddles about this fantastic race of beings!" Palanth
exclaimed irritably, waving his handkerchief. "What has radiant energy
got to do with them anyway?"

"Just a hunch of mine, Palanth. If the energy they absorb from minerals
is radiant energy ... well, we might be able to defy the Terran Fleet
itself ... _if_!"

"You still speak in riddles, O Thou specially not wanted!" Palanth
lapsed into his usual grandiloquent manner. "At any rate, your idea of
fighting the Terran Fleet with radiant energy certainly had a startling
effect on that mysterious biped of yours." He pressed still another
offensively perfumed handkerchief to his face and eyed the changing
landscape of Europa with distaste. It was a raw panorama of great
tracts of vivid red soil, exposed by the melting snows; outcrops of
glittering rocks rich in minerals flashed in rainbow hues under the
powerful ultra-visibility reflectors that were substituting for Terra's
Sol. In the near distance, gigantic skeletal structures were a babel of
sound, and beyond, the mile-high weather control towers fought steadily
the numbing cold.

"Must I explain in words of one syllable so that dubious intellect of
yours can absorb it?" Mark asked mockingly. "Well, while asking the
Panadur about radiant energy, _I had in mind_ building thousands of
tiny spacers out of some of the Spacer Transports that brought us here.
These tiny swarms are to be filled with _radiant energy_ and aimed by
mechanical robot control directly at the Terran Fleet so that they
will explode on contact, annihilating everything in their path. Thus
lives will be conserved.... _But the radiant energy must come from the
Panadurs!_"

"Too many _ifs_," Palanth replied unconvinced. "However, we can have
a fleet of miniature spacers ready before the Council's butchers get
within a million parsecs of Europa.

"But without either your damned radiant energy or some explosive that
will do what no explosive has ever done before, or ray either, for that
matter, the ships will be as useless as ... as a Panadur in a fight!"

"_Build the fleet!_" came the startling telepathic command from the
direction of the cavern country.

"He ... _It_ was in contact!" Palanth gazed at Mark Lynn startled.

"He always is," Mark held up the gleaming blue, star-like gem he
carried in his pocket. "Probably appreciated your complimentary remark
about the fighting qualities of Panadurs. But that's what I wanted to
hear him say!" He exulted. "Hold up everything Palanth, and throw all
our resources into the building of the miniature fleet."

"Yeah! But let's not forget to get the remaining spacers into shape
just in case.... I'd much rather die exploding on a Terran spacer, than
trapped like a Martian desert rat on Europa."

"Patience, O Spawn of unfortunate begetting!" Mark taunted his friend
with one of the latter's favorite insults. "Everything in good time."

As their Spacer came into view in the distance, Mark increased his
speed unconsciously as he thought of Lucero.


                                 VIII

His eyes were expressionless, his ego inert, but with the incredible
dexterity of genius and long practice, Doctor Verdugo transferred the
brains of drugged scientists to the waiting rows of perfected robots.

The bolt of living energy that had dropped the infamous Terran surgeon
in the recesses of an Europan cavern, had neutralized his will, and his
egocentric and sadistic personality no longer dominated his brain.

Now his flying fingers manipulated atomic scalpels without hesitation,
and one by one scientific brains were short of certain areas, without
impairing them. Silently he coupled the organic demi-brains with the
mechanical motor organs of the robots, by means of nerve tendrils that
led out of the brains themselves, and were curled into coils about
which he placed helixes of sensitized silver wire, that made them
virtually transformers--nervous impulses into electrical and vice versa.

The miracle that was Alcoran, the super-robot, was being multiplied
five-hundred fold, as each scientific hostage provided a brain to
activate the new super-robots of the Panadurs.

Alcoran itself had been operated upon to remove certain allegiances
and memories and now, under the direct control of the Panadur leader,
assisted the doctor in the operations.

The Panadur leader watched expressionless as the work went on
ceaselessly, inexorably until every scientific brain was housed in a
metal man.

Finally, at a telepathic command from their leader, the Panadurs began
to carry the cadavers of the scientists away--their energy potential
must not be wasted--the need for energy would be great. And then, an
uncanny, a hair-raising scene took place.

As if felled by a blow, Doctor Verdugo collapsed prone upon the now
empty operation table, and Alcoran detaching himself from among the
newly activated robots, grasped instruments and began to operate.

Stranger still, a Panadur silently lay down by the side of the
scientist and relaxed as if in death.

Doctor Verdugo's cranium was trepanned and opened, Alcoran deftly
extracted the brain operating with the mastery that had been Verdugo's.
Then he opened the brain pan of the Panadur and removed certain parts
from its alien brain, including the pituitary at the apex, which
seemed enormous in comparison with the size of the Panadur's brain,
and grafted it to what had been the brain of Doctor Verdugo. Then as
a swarm of Panadurs dragged a robot forward, he inserted the organic
brain in the super-robot's helmet, made the necessary connections,
completed the task and sealed the incision. Verdugo's body was carried
away. The same swarm of Panadurs circled the super-robot, and began to
generate energy potential which they transmitted to the quiescent brain
in its metal head.

Slowly, the superb metal man rose from the table and with slender,
delicate hands grasped its head. Its brilliant beryl eyes of purest
indestructible crystal, glowed in the chiseled semi-triangular face.
Suddenly it raised its head and gazed straight at the Panadur leader,
and as if it had received a command, it bowed silently. Then, with the
lithe, cat-like stride of the Panadurs it headed for the exit of the
Cavern and was gone.

An expression of triumph exalted the Leader's features. "Hereafter," he
thought, "the energy output to control robots' brains telepathically,
will not be necessary. _They could be rendered telepathic!_"

It was then the Leader turned majestically toward the cavern's depths
and issued his final command to the waiting legions of his people. The
robots with the mechanical brains, nearly a thousand strong, marched
forward, and, behind them, rank upon rank of the countless furry
Panadurs.

Once outside in the artificial sunlight of Europa, only the myriad
bullet-shaped, miniature spacers flashing in the golden light, drew
their eyes. The distant rows of tiny, waiting ships drew robots and
Panadurs alike like a magnet and the immense army of silver-gray beings
with a vanguard of metal men swept forward, eerily silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Within the _Stellar Virgin_, Mark Lynn paced the confines of what had
been Verdugo's chamber. The Tele-Magnum, repaired and rebuilt could be
seen in the small alcove. Mark's face was gray and haggard as he faced
Lucero and Palanth, seated on a couch against the wall.

"No word from the Panadur Leader, and we cannot wait much longer! If
my calculations are right, the Terran Fleet should be nearing Europa's
orbit. We cannot afford to be caught on the ground."

"Do you suppose the Council would listen?" It was Palanth hoping
against hope. "Try them, Mark; we can spar for time." Then in sheer
desperation: "I told you, Terran, those bipeds would never come through
with that infernal radiant energy!" His features also showed the strain
he'd gone through, even the ubiquitous handkerchief was missing.

"I will!" Mark had reached a decision. "But no mercy can be expected
from them, I'll have to handle it _my way_...." He broke off and walked
to the Tele-Magnum, followed by Lucero and Palanth. Outside, an immense
multitude of Terrans awaited orders.

Mark Lynn sat down at the console and manipulated the controls,
his fingers danced over the console keys until the eerie glow of
swirling colors and the ascending whine of the instrument told him
he had the required power. Scene after scene rushed on and off the
tele-panel until finally Venus City flashed into view. Mark made minute
adjustments and increased the potential--at last the inner Council
Chamber was revealed.

It was filled to overflowing with scientists of the highest order. An
atmosphere of excitement pervaded it as experts of various categories
rushed in and out with their calculations and reports. They were
electrified as the scene within the Spacer was flashed on their
gigantic tele-panel. Mark waited an instant before he spoke, as the
holy of holies subsided into utter silence.

"Europa," he said with complete aplomb, "greets the Council. A free
Europa offers peace. Soon the Terran Fleet will have reached our new
world, and that Fleet will not return to Venus! Before it is too
late, before the interplanetary void becomes the scene of a gigantic
hecatomb, we ask you, _turn your fleet back_ before it is too late!"

There was an interval of stunned, disbelieving silence. Within the
memory of all present such a speech had never been heard. Such
insolence was so utterly unthinkable, that the scientists stood
grotesquely open-mouthed. Then in a rising tide of fury pandemonium
broke loose.

"Traitor!" Was the universal cry. "Apostate, blasphemer!" From among
the scientific swarm that had completely forgotten their dignity, a
tall, white-bearded scientist detached himself and raising both arms
roared: "Silence! The Master will speak!" The pandemonium ceased
like a receding storm. Mark Lynn waited. Contemptuously he eyed the
sleek bodies clothed in costly raiment, the bejeweled fingers and
cruel faces. A wave of revulsion swept over him as he remembered what
countless millions had suffered at their hands. And as he waited, a
deep, magnificently modulated voice broke the stillness:

"_You_ offer peace!" Low, sardonic laughter slashed like a scimitar.
"Peace I shall grant you earthling... in the _power reserve_! You and
that addled female who has betrayed her scientist's oath, and that
foppish Martian who even dares to ape my robes. To the rest of the
dissenters, conditioning by the controls and rigid supervision for
fifteen years. Those who are immune to controls, shall be condemned to
power reserve."

He paused as if relishing the effect of words that sealed a planet's
doom. Then: "As for those humanoid creatures with silver furs Doctor
Verdugo mentioned in his message, we have already planned their orbit
of _achievement_ ... that is," the satanic chuckle rose again, "for the
ones we spare to serve, the rest shall be disposed of properly."

The unseen speaker's voice ceased, as if there were nothing more to be
said.

In the momentary silence the voice of a robot boomed behind him:

"Master, a messenger from Panadur!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mark Lynn whirled and saw a new type of robot, whose delicate features
resembled uncannily those of the beings of Europa. Its beryl eyes
regarded him steadily as it stood motionless flanked by two robot
guards. Then Mark received the telepathic message flashing from the
super-robot's brain:

"I, Leader of Panadur, have attended to represent my People."

For an instant Mark wondered if the Leader had somehow transferred his
own brain to the metal man, for some obscure purpose of his own, but
telepathically, he was reassured.

"The metal man's brain relays my thoughts only. It is a vehicle,
nothing more, and can convey speech when the need shall arise."

"War is imminent, Panadur," he telepathed, knowing that the Council
could not receive his thoughts. "Without radiant energy we're doomed to
failure." But from the super-robot came no answer. Mark Lynn whirled to
face the Tele-Magnum again, and his voice rang true with contemptuous
assurance.

"You're dreaming, _Benevolence_! My offer was merely to prevent
needless slaughter. Your hour of domination has passed. When your
Terran Fleet reaches the orbit of Europa, it will disintegrate, leaving
you and your cruel henchmen helpless to enforce your vandal rule on
Mars and Venus; a tidal wave of retribution will sweep you out of the
planetary colonies. Europa is and will remain free. Your despotic rule
has come to an end. This is your _last_ chance for peace!"

"You are mad!" There was a terrible anger in the voice of the Supreme
Ruler. "Mad.... Do you think for an instant that I would send the
entire Terran Fleet to your puny satellite? A mere section of a
thousand ships will be enough to blast your blaspheming minions off its
frozen wastes. But enough of this, in less than an hour our ships will
be above you and death shall be swift!" The Tele-Screen went blank.

"I can stay no longer, my men await me." Palanth rose abruptly and left
the chamber. He hurried to his flagship that led a section of what
remained of the great Spacers that had brought them to Europa.

"My bluff has failed," Mark said quietly to Lucero, and his face was
drained of all color. "Go to the Panadur caverns, my dear, they may be
able to provide safety for you. I have only one course of action left."

Lucero shook her lovely head. "We began together, we shall end that
way." There was unshakable determination in her quiet, husky voice.
"Go and give the necessary orders ... it ... it ..." her voice broke
slightly, "has been a glorious adventure, Mark!" He kissed her with
infinite tenderness and tore himself away.

Once in the control room, his tones were hard as beryloy as he issued
command after command, and the gigantic spacers rose in a crescendo of
sound toward the trackless void. He knew the ships had been rendered
as formidable as was within their power, but even that was not enough,
and the knowledge that countless millions faced certain death became a
terrible anger and desperation within him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Europan Fleet in battle formation, assumed a staggered triangle,
in tiers of ships that rendered it a three-dimensional wedge. Powerful
super-armored spacers formed the frontal line, while the spacers they
had been able to equip with atomic projectors guarded the sides, ready
to meet encirclement. At the very apex rode the _Stellar Virgin_, with
Palanth's sectional flagship the _Hellacorium_ one tier beneath. It was
a magnificent sight, and viewing it through the Tele-Magnum, Mark had a
momentary lift of pride.

"Connect three-dimensional telecast," Mark ordered the robot, and
instantly the tele-panel showed a scene as if it were an open window on
the heavens. In the distance racing at unimaginable speed, the Terran
Fleet flashed on majestically.

Breathlessly, the watchers on two worlds eyed its inexorable approach.
Suddenly, from the vanguard of the Terran Fleet a pencil of livid
light speared an Europan Spacer, and the great transport seemed to
disintegrate in space. Mark's knuckles were white as they tightened.

"Maneuver and blast!" He roared into the radio, and in unison, but with
vertiginous speed the Europa fleet became a single perpendicular line
that spewed atom-blast in an awesome holocaust. But the Terran Fleet
came on unscathed. Simultaneously converging beams of livid light shot
out from its foremost cruisers and a score of Europan Spacers crumbled
into dust. In desperation a flight of them hurled themselves suicidally
against the driving Terran Fleet, and whorls of incandescence illumined
the ghastly scene, and it was then that Mark saw several shattered
Terran Spacers spinning down.

"We have no chance!" Mark gritted as he saw the Europan Spacers
disintegrated in the awful struggle. "Murderers!... We'll hurl all our
remaining spacers against the Terran Fleet; if that's the only way to
shatter them, that's the way it'll be!" As he was about to give the
fateful command, the Panadur super-robot, who had accompanied them, lay
a restraining metal hand on Mark Lynn's arm:

"Wait!" He exclaimed laconically, and pointed to the three-dimensional
Tele-cast. He flicked a tiny lever and made delicate adjustments. As
if seen through an ultra-powerful telescope, a vast swarm of silver
specks were rising from Europa itself. With dazzling speed many times
greater than that of the Spacers, the darting miniatures grew in size.
Presently they reached the battle scene, and like metal hornets were
darting among the intermingled fleets, as if seeking their prey.

From thousands of projectors of the Terran Fleet, a myriad
scintillating beams crossed and criss-crossed the void like cosmic
fingers, but the tiny ships in an unexpected maneuver, executed with
dazzling speed, had scattered, skimming, darting, swooping like silver
hawks, spreading like an immense net over and beneath the Terran ships.
Now, they aimed themselves with unerring accuracy at the battle-giants
of the Council.

Dozens disappeared into puffs of brilliant light as the Terran beams
found their mark, but as the flagship of the Terran Fleet maneuvered
into position to annihilate the on-coming swarm, a single silver
miniature crashed squarely against its nose. As if a meteor had
exploded in space, there was a burst of intolerable light blinding the
watchers, and just as they were able to see again, a salvo of crashes
became a flaming incandescence that human eyes could never record.

[Illustration: _Space was a raving hell of raw energy._]

When at last the awesome scene had ceased, and they were able to open
their tortured eyes, the void was empty but for a pitiful remnant
fleeing pell-mell from an enemy that became a living projectile and
crashed suicidally against their ships with immediate annihilation to
both. A few silver bullets pursued them relentlessly until distance
swallowed them.

       *       *       *       *       *

In their Europan ships, now being tossed like leaves in a storm, no
one spoke. There were no words in human throats that could shatter the
brooding silence in two worlds.

Even the sight of a thin, towering old man, whose despotic face was
blanched as he gazed from the balcony above the Council Chamber, was
not enough to bring back their speech. The head of the Council, the
Supreme Ruler had shown himself for the first time in history!

"Fiends!" He croaked in a voice that trembled with shocked unbelief.
"Demons! What manner of beings have you on Europa that their bodies
can shatter the Council's fleet? For this your world shall be
destroyed--utterly destroyed!"

"With what?" It was the Panadur Leader speaking through his robot.
"Listen, O Man of evil! The five-hundred scientists you sent to our
world, no longer exist. Their minds activate such robots as you have
never even imagined. Verdugo is a robot himself--the robot whose voice
you are listening to, as my telepathic commands reach its brain. You
saw my people hurling themselves against your might and dissolving into
_radiant energy_, which we absorb directly from matter as you absorb
energy from food. We can store it in our bodies, increasing it into a
potential which can be directed at will and released with cumulative
force. Nothing in our universe can withstand that--and we're willing to
die by the millions that Panadur may be free!"

"We shall make treaties with Mars and Venus, to permit the millions
of Terrans to dwell on their Planets until we can provide habitation
for them elsewhere. In the meantime, take your choice, old man! Your
terror-reign is ended. We give you the choice of the radiant death,
or a space ship to take you and your vermin beyond the inner planets.
You will be provided with whatever you need--but the Council must go
forever!"

The Supreme Ruler realized defeat. He had never granted mercy--he
expected none. His arms hung limp at his sides, and his head with its
smoldering, hatred-filled eyes hung on his aged chest. He gazed at the
stunned assembly of scientists below him and knew there was no escape.

If he defied Mark Lynn and the Panadurs, the Terran Fleet would be
utterly destroyed and without that safeguard, Mars and Venus would
sweep them off their planets. Everywhere his thoughts turned he only
saw death. And, as the power he had held for years slipped from his
grasp, he became a gray, broken old man who knew fear.

"We will go, International!" He flung with one final sneer, as the
hatred of a trapped beast flamed in his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Mark Lynn manipulated the keys and cut the connection, he found a
warm body being pressed against his, and a tear-wet face that burrowed
beneath his chin. His arms went about Lucero.

"Crying, indeed! Where is the dignity of a scientist, Doctor Fortun?"
He smiled with a vast tenderness.

"Damn scientists," she exclaimed inelegantly, and burrowed deeper. "All
I want is to be a woman, Mark!"

At that moment the tele-panel lighted signaling and Mark connected
again. It was Palanth.

"Mark! Mark!" His face was alight with triumph. But Mark did not
answer, for a new dawn was rising in his heart, and Lucero's lips were
pressed to his.

The Martian went silent, scowled for a moment and shrugged his
shoulders, then pressed a square of Venusian silk to his supercilious
nose in order to hide a spreading grin.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Transcriber's Note: No Section V heading in original.]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star Guardsman, by Albert dePina

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR GUARDSMAN ***

***** This file should be named 62765.txt or 62765.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/7/6/62765/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
