The Project Gutenberg EBook of Wanderers of the Wolf-Moon, by Nelson S. Bond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Wanderers of the Wolf-Moon

Author: Nelson S. Bond

Release Date: August 26, 2020 [EBook #63048]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WANDERERS OF THE WOLF-MOON ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                      Wanderers of the Wolf Moon

                           By NELSON S. BOND

           They were marooned on Titan, their ship wrecked,
             the radio smashed. Yet they had to exist, had
            to build a new life on a hostile world. And the
           man who assumed command was Gregory Malcolm, the
             bespectacled secretary--whose only adventures
                 had come through the pages of a book.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Sparks snapped off the switches and followed him to the door of the
radio turret. Sparks was a stunted, usually-grinning, little redhead
named Hannigan. But he wasn't grinning now. He laid an anxious hand on
Greg's arm. "If I was you," he said, "if I was you, Malcolm, I don't
think I'd say nothing to the boss about this. Not just yet, anyhow."

Greg said, "Why not?"

Sparks spluttered and fussed and made heavy weather of answering.

"Well, for one thing, it ain't important. It would only worry him. And
then there's the womenfolks, they scare easy. Which of course they
ain't no cause to. Atmospherics don't mean nothing. I've rode out
worse storms than this--plenty of times. And in worse crates than the
_Carefree_."

Greg studied him carefully from behind trim plasta-rimmed spectacles.
He drew a deep breath. He said levelly, "So it's _that_ bad, eh,
Sparks?"

"What bad? I just told you--"

"I know. Sparks, I'm not a professional spaceman. But I've studied
astrogation as few Earthlubbers have. It's been my hobby for years. And
I think I know what we're up against.

"We hit a warp-eddy last night. We've been trapped in a vortex for
more than eight hours. Lord only knows how many hundreds of thousands
of miles we've been borne off our course. And now we've blasted into a
super-ionized belt of atmospherics. Your radio signals are blanketed.
You can't get signals in or out. We're a deaf-mute speck of metal being
whirled headlong through space. Isn't that it?"

"I don't know what--" began Sparks hotly. Then he stopped, studied his
companion thoughtfully, nodded. "O.Q.," he confessed, "that's it. But
we ain't licked yet. We got three good men on the bridge. Townsend ...
Graves ... Langhorn. They'll pull out of this if anybody can. And they
ain't no sense in scaring the Old Man and his family."

"I won't tell them," said Greg. "I won't tell them unless I have to.
But between you and me, what are the odds against us, Sparks?"

The radioman shrugged.

"Who knows? Vortices are unpredictable. Maybe the damn thing will toss
us out on the very spot it picked us up. Maybe it will give us the old
chuckeroo a million miles the other side of Pluto. Maybe it will crack
us up on an asteroid or satellite. No way of telling till it happens."

"And the controls?"

"As useless," said Sparks, "as a cow in a cyclone."

"So?"

"We sit tight," said Sparks succinctly, "and hope."

Malcolm nodded quietly. He took off his spectacles, breathed on them,
wiped them, replaced them. He was tall and fair; in his neat, crisply
pressed business suit he appeared even slimmer than he was. But there
was no nervousness in his movements. He moved measuredly. "Well," he
said, "that appears to be that. I'm going up to the dining dome."

Sparks stared at him querulously.

"You're a queer duck, Malcolm. I don't think you've got a nerve in your
body."

"Nerves are a luxury I can't afford," replied Greg. "If anything
happens--and if there's time to do so--let me know." He paused at the
door. "Good luck," he said.

"Clear ether!" said Sparks mechanically. He stared after the other man
wonderingly for a long moment, then went back to his control banks,
shaking his head and muttering.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gregory Malcolm climbed down the Jacob's-ladder and strode briskly
through the labyrinthine corridors that were the entrails of the
space yacht _Carefree_. He paused once to peer through a _perilens_
set into the ship's port plates. It was a weird sight that met his
gaze. Not space, ebony-black and bejewelled with a myriad flaming
splotches of color; not the old, familiar constellations treading
their ever-lasting, inexorable paths about the perimeter of Sol's
tiny universe, but a shimmering webwork of light, so tortured-violet
that the eyes ached to look upon it. This was the mad typhoon of
space-atmospherics through which the _Carefree_ was now being twisted,
topsy-turvy, toward a nameless goal.

He moved on, approaching at last the quartzite-paned observation
rotunda which was the dining dome of the ship.

His footsteps slowed as he composed himself to face those within. As
he hesitated in the dimly-lighted passage, a trick of lights on glass
mirrored to him the room beyond. He could see the others while they
were as yet unaware of his presence. Their voices reached him clearly.

J. Foster Andrews, his employer and the employer of the ten thousand
or more men and women who worked for Galactic Metals Corporation,
dominated the head of the table. He was a plump, impatient little
Napoleon. Opposite him, calm, graceful, serene, tastefully garbed and
elaborately coiffured even here in deep space, three weeks from the
nearest beauty shop, sat his wife, Enid.

On Andrews' right sat his sister, Maud. Not young, features plain as a
mud fence, but charming despite her age and homeliness simply because
of her eyes; puckish, shrewdly intelligent eyes, constantly aglint with
suppressed humor at--guessed Greg--the amusing foibles and frailties of
those about her.

She gave her breakfast the enthusiastic attention of one too old and
shapeless to be concerned with such folderol as calories and dietetics,
pausing only from time to time to share smidgeons of food with a
watery-eyed scrap of white, curly fluff beside her chair. Her pet
poodle, whom she called by the opprobrious title of "Cuddles."

On J. Foster's left sat his daughter, Crystal. She it was who caused
Gregory Malcolm's staid, respectable heart to give a little lurch as
he glimpsed her reflected vision--all gold and crimson and cream--in
the glistening walls. If Crystal was her name, so, too, was crystal her
loveliness.

But--Greg shook his head--but she was not for him. She was already
pledged to the young man seated beside her. Ralph Breadon. He turned
to murmur something to her as Greg watched; Greg saw and admired and
disliked his rangy height, his sturdy, well-knit strength, the rich
brownness of his skin, his hair, his eyes.

The sound of his own name startled Greg.

"Malcolm!" called the man at the head of the table. "Malcolm! Now where
in blazes is he, anyhow?" he demanded of no one in particular, everyone
in general. He spooned a dab of liquid gold from a Limoges preserve
jar, tongued it suspiciously, frowned. "Bitter!" he complained.

"It's the very _best_ Martian honey," said his wife.

"Drylands clover," added Crystal.

"It's still bitter," said J. Foster petulantly.

His sister sniffed. "Nonsense! It's delightful."

"I say it's bitter," repeated Andrews sulkily. And lifted his voice
again. "_Malcolm!_ Where _are_ you?"

"You called me, sir?" said Malcolm, moving into the room. He nodded
politely to the others. "Good morning, Mrs. Andrews ... Miss
Andrews ... Mr. Breadon...."

"Oh, sit down!" snapped J. Foster. "Sit down here and stop bobbing your
head like a teetotum! Had your breakfast? The honey's no good; it's
bitter." He glared at his sister challengingly. "Where have you been,
anyway? What kind of secretary are you? Have you been up to the radio
turret? How's the market today? Is Galactic up or down?"

Malcolm said, "I don't know, sir."

"Fine! Fine!" Andrews rattled on automatically before the words
registered. Then he started, his face turning red. "Eh? What's that?
Don't know! What do you mean, you don't know? I pay you to--"

"There's no transmission, sir," said Greg quietly.

"No trans--nonsense! Of course there's transmission! I put a million
credits into this ship. Finest space-yacht ever built. Latest equipment
throughout. Sparks is drunk, that's what you mean! Well, you hop right
up there and--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Maud Andrews put down her fork with a clatter. "Oh, for goodness sakes,
Jonathan, shut up and give the boy time to explain! He's standing
there with his mouth gaping like a rain-spout, trying to get a word in
edgewise! What's the trouble, Gregory?" She turned to Greg, as Jonathan
Foster Andrews wheezed into startled silence. "_That?_"

She glanced at the quartzite dome, beyond which the veil of iridescence
wove and cross-wove and shimmered like a pallid aurora.

Greg nodded. "Yes, Miss Andrews."

Enid Andrews spoke languidly from the other end of the table.

"But what is it, Gregory? A local phenomenon?"

"You might call it that," said Greg, selecting his words cautiously.
"It's an ionized field into which we've blasted. It--it--shouldn't stay
with us long. But while it persists, our radio will be blanketed out."

Breadon's chestnut head came up suddenly, sharply.

"Ionization! That means atmosphere!"

Greg said, "Yes."

"And an atmosphere means a body in space somewhere near--" Breadon
stopped, bit his lip before the appeal in Malcolm's eyes, tried to pass
it off easily. "Oh, well--a change of scenery, what?"

But the moment of alarm in his voice had not passed unnoticed. Crystal
Andrews spoke for all of them, her voice preternaturally quiet.

"You're hiding something, Malcolm. What is it? Is there--danger?"

But Greg didn't have to answer that question. From the doorway a harsh,
defiantly strident voice answered for him. The voice of Bert Andrews,
Crystal's older brother.

"Danger? You're damn right there's danger! What's the matter with
you folks--are you all deaf, dumb and blind? We've been caught in a
space-vortex for hours. Now we're in the H-layer of a planet we can't
even see--and in fifteen minutes or fifteen seconds we may all be
smashed as flat as pancakes!"

The proclamation brought them out of their chairs. Greg's heart sank;
his vain plea, "Mr. Andrews--" was lost in the medley of Crystal's
sudden gasp, Enid Andrews' short, choking scream, J. Foster's bellowing
roar at his only son.

"Bert--you're drunk!"

Bert weaved precariously from the doorway, laughed in his father's face.

"Sure I'm drunk! Why not? If you're smart you'll get drunk, too. The
whole damn lot of you!" He flicked a derisive hand toward Greg. "You
too, Boy Scout! What were you trying to do--hide the bad news from
them? Well, it's no use. Everybody might as well know the worst. We're
gone gooses ... geeses ... aw, what the hell! Dead ducks!" He fell
into a chair, sprawled there laughing mirthlessly with fear riding the
too-high notes of his laughter.

J. Foster turned to his secretary slowly. His ire had faded; there was
only deep concern in his voice.

"Is he telling the truth, Malcolm?"

Greg said soberly, "Partly, sir. He's overstating the danger--but
there is danger. We are caught in a space-vortex, and as Mr.
Breadon realized, the presence of these ionics means we're in the
Heaviside-layer of some heavenly body. But we may not crack up."

Maud Andrews glanced at him shrewdly.

"Is there anything we can do?"

"Not a thing. The officers on the bridge are doing everything possible."

"In that case," said the older woman, "we might as well finish our
breakfast. Here, Cuddles! Come to momsy!" She sat down again. Greg
looked at her admiringly. Ralph Breadon stroked his brown jaw. He said,
"The life-skiffs?"

"A last resort," said Greg. "Sparks promised he'd let me know if it
were necessary. We'll hope it's not--"

But it was a vain hope, vainly spoken in the last, vain moment. For
even as he phrased the hopeful words, came the sound of swift, racing
footsteps up the corridor. Into the dining dome burst Hannigan, eyes
hot with excitement. And his cry dispelled Greg's final hopes for
safety.

"Everybody--the Number Four life-skiff--_quick_! We've been caught in a
grav-drag and we're going to crash!"


                                  II

Those next hectic moments were never afterward very clear in Greg
Malcolm's memory. He had a confused recollection of hearing Sparks'
warning punctuated by a loud, shrill scream which he vaguely identified
as emanating from Mrs. Andrews' throat ... he was conscious of feeling,
suddenly, beneath his feet the sickening, quickening lurch of a ship
out of control, gripped by gravitational forces beyond its power to
allay ... he recalled his own voice dinning in his ears as, incredibly,
with Sparks, he took command of the hasty flight from the dining dome
down the corridor to the aft ramp, up the ramp, across girdered beams
in the super-structure to the small, independently motored rocket-skiff
cradled there.

He was aware, too, of strangely disconnected incidents happening around
him, he being a part of them but seeming to be only a disinterested
spectator to their strangeness. Of his forcing Maud Andrews toward
the door of the dome ... of her pushing back against him with all the
weight of her body ... of her irate voice, "Cuddles! I forgot him!"
Then the shrill excited yapping of the poodle cradled against her as
they charged on down the corridor.

J. Foster waddling beside him, tugging at his arm, panting, "The
officers?" and his own unfelt assurance. "They can take care of
themselves. It's a general 'bandon ship." Enid Andrews stumbling over
the hem of a filmy peignoir ... himself bending to lift her boldly and
bodily, sweating palms feeling the warm animal heat of her excited
body hot beneath them ... Crystal Andrews stopping suddenly, crying,
"'Tina!" ... and Hannigan's reply, "Your maid? I woke her. She's in the
life-skiff." Bert Andrews stopping suddenly, being sick in the middle
of the corridor, his drunkenness losing itself in the thick, sure
nausea of the ever-increasing unsteadiness beneath their feet.

Then the life-skiff, the clang of metal as Hannigan slammed the
port behind the last of them, the fumbling for a lock-stud, the
quick, grateful pant of the miniature hypos, and a weird feeling of
weightlessness, rushingness, hurtlingness as his eardrums throbbed and
his mouth tasted brassy and bloody with the fierce velocity of their
escape.

Sense and meaning returned only when all this ended. As one waking from
a nightmare dream, Greg Malcolm returned to a world he could recognize.
A tiny world, encased within the walls of a forty-foot life-skiff. A
world peopled too scantily. Andrews, his wife and sister, his son and
daughter; 'Tina Laney, the maid; Breadon, Hannigan, young Tommy O'Doul,
the cabin-boy (though where he had come from, or when, Greg did not
know). And himself. In a life-skiff. In space.

Somewhere in space. He looked through the _perilens_. What he saw then
he might better never have seen. For that shimmering pink-ochre veil
had wisped away, now, and in the clean, cold, bitter-clear light of a
distant sun he watched the death-dive of the yacht _Carefree_.

Like a vast silver top, spinning heedlessly, wildly, it streaked toward
a mottled gray and green, brown and dun, hard and crushing-brutal
terrain below. Still at its helm stood someone, for even in that last
dreadful moment burst from its nose-jets a ruddy mushroom of flame that
tried to, but could not, brake the dizzy fall.

For an instant Greg's eyes, stingingly blinded and wet, thought they
glimpsed a wee black mote dancing from the bowels of the _Carefree_; a
mote that might be another skiff like their own. But he could not be
sure, and then the _Carefree_ was accelerating with such violence and
speed that the eye could see it only as a flaming silver lance against
the ugly earth-carcase beneath, and then it struck and a carmine bud of
flame burst and flowered for an instant, and that was all....

And Greg Malcolm turned from the _perilens_, shaken.

Hannigan said, "It's over?" and Greg nodded.

Hannigan said, "The other skiffs? Did they break free, or were they
caught?"

"I don't know. I couldn't see for sure."

"You must have seen. Are we the only ones?"

"I couldn't see for sure. Maybe. Maybe not."

Then a body scrambled forward, pressing through the tightness of other
huddled bodies, and there was a hand upon his elbow. "I'll take over
now, Malcolm."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Ralph Breadon. Gregory looked at him slowly, uncomprehendingly
at first. His hand was reluctant to leave the guiding-gear of the
small ship which was, now, all that remained to them of civilization
and civilization's wondrous accomplishments. He had not realized until
this moment that for a while ... for a short, eager, pulse-quickening
while ... on his alertness, in his hands, had depended the destinies
of ten men and women. But he knew, suddenly and completely, that it
was for this single moment his whole lifetime had waited. It was for
this brief moment of command that some intuition, some instinct greater
than knowledge, had prepared him. This was why he, an Earthlubber, had
studied astrogation, made a hobby of the empire of the stars. That he
might be fitted to command when all others failed. And now--

And now the moment was past, and he was once again Gregory Malcolm,
mild, lean, pale, bespectacled secretary to J. Foster Andrews. And the
man at his side was Ralph Breadon, socialite and gentleman sportsman,
trained pilot. And in Malcolm the habit of obedience was strong....

"Very well, sir," he said. And he turned over the controls.

What happened then was unfortunate. It might just as well have happened
to Malcolm, though afterward no one could ever say with certainty.
However that was, either by carelessness or malfortune or inefficiency,
once-thwarted disaster struck again at the little party on the
life-skiff. At the instant Breadon's hand seized the controls the skiff
jerked suddenly as though struck with a ponderous fist, its throbbing
motors choked and snarled in a high, rising crescendo of torment that
lost itself in supersonic heights, and the ship that had been drifting
easily and under control to the planet beneath now dipped viciously.

The misfortune was that too many huddled in the tiny space understood
the operation of the life-skiff, and what must be done instantly. And
that neither pilot was as yet in control of the ship. Breadon's hand
leaped for the Dixie rod, so, too, did Malcolm's--and across both their
bodies came the arm of Sparks Hannigan, searching the controls.

In the scramble someone's sleeve brushed the banks of control-keys. The
motors, killed, soughed into silence. The ship rocked into a spin. Greg
cried out, his voice a strange harshness in his ears; Breadon cursed;
one of the women bleated fearfully.

Then Breadon, still cursing, fought all hands from the controls but his
own. And the man was not without courage. For all could see plainly,
in the illumined _perilens_, how near to swift death that moment of
uncertainty had led them. The skiff, which an instant before had been
high in the stratosphere of this unknown planet ... or satellite
or whatever it might be ... was now flashing toward hard ground at
lightning speed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only a miracle, Greg knew, could save them now. An impulse spun his
head, he looked at Crystal Andrews. There was no fear in her eyes. Just
a hotness and an inexplicable anger. Beside her was the other girl, the
maid, 'Tina; she was frankly afraid. Her teeth were clenched in her
nether lip, and her eyes were wide and anxious, but she did not cry out.

Only a miracle could save them now. But Breadon's hands performed
that miracle; his quick, nerveless, trained hands. A stud here ...
a lever there ... a swift wrenching toss of the shoulders. His face
twisted back over his shoulder, and his straining lips pulled taut
and bloodless away from his teeth. "Hold tight, folks! We're going to
bounce--"

Then they struck!

But they struck glancingly, as Breadon had hoped, and planned for,
and gambled on. They struck and bounced. The frail craft shivered
and groaned in metal agony, jarred across harsh soil, bounced again,
settled, nosed over and rocked to a standstill. Somewhere forward
something snapped with a shrill, high _ping!_ of stress; somewhere aft
was the metallic flap-clanging of broken gear trailing behind them. But
they were safe.

Breath, held so long that he could not remember its inhalation, escaped
Greg's lungs in a long sigh. "Nice work, Mr. Breadon!" he cried. "Oh,
nice work!"

But surprisingly, savagely, Breadon turned on him.

"It would have been _better_ work, Malcolm, if you'd kept your damned
hands off the controls! Now see what you've done? Smashed up our skiff!
Our only--"

"He didn't do it!" piped the shrill voice of Tommy O'Doul. "You done it
yourself, Mr. Breadon. Your sleeve. It caught the switch."

"Quiet!" Breadon, cheeks flushed, reached out smartly, stilled
the youngster's defense with a swift, ungentle slap. "And you,
Malcolm--after this, do as you're told, and don't try to assume
responsibilities too great for you. All right, everybody. Let's get out
and see how bad the damage is."

Instinctively Greg had surged a half step forward as Breadon silenced
the cabin boy. Now old habit and common-sense halted him. He's
overwrought, he reasoned. We're all excited and on edge. We've been to
Bedlam. Our nerves are shot. In a little while we'll all be back to
normal.

He said quietly, "Very well, Mr. Breadon." And he climbed from the
broken skiff.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hannigan said, "Looks bad, don't it?"

"Very," said Malcolm. He fingered a shard of loose metal flapping like
a fin from the stern of the skiff. "Not hopeless, though. There should
be an acetylene torch in the tool locker. With that--"

"You ought to of poked him," said Hannigan.

"What? Oh, you mean--?"

"Yeah. The kid was right, you know. He done it."

"His sleeve, you mean. Well, it was an accident," said Greg. "It could
have happened to anyone. And he made a good landing. Considering
everything. Anyhow--" Again he was Gregory Malcolm, serious-faced,
efficient secretary. "Anyhow, we have been thrust into an extremely
precarious circumstance. It would be silly to take umbrage at a man's
nervous anger. We must have no quarreling, no bickering--"

"Umbrage!" snorted Sparks. "Bickering! They're big words. I ain't sure
I know what they mean. I ain't exactly sure they mean _anything_." He
glanced at Greg oddly. "You're a queer jasper, Malcolm. Back there
on the ship, I figured you for a sort of a stuffed-shirt. Yes-man to
the boss. And then in the show-down, you come through like a movie
hero--for a little while. Then you let that Breadon guy give you the
spur without a squawk--"

Malcolm adjusted his plasta-rimmed spectacles. He said, almost
stubbornly, "Our situation is grave. There must be no bickering."

"Bickering your Aunt Jenny! What do you call that?"

Sparks jerked a contemptuous thumb toward the group from which they
were separated. Upon disembarking, only Greg and Sparks had moved to
make a careful examination of their damaged craft. The others, more
or less under the direction of Breadon, were making gestures toward
removing certain necessaries from the skiff. Their efforts, slight and
uncertain as they were, had already embroiled them in argument.

The gist of their argument, so far as Greg Malcolm could determine, was
that everyone wanted "something" to be done, but no two could agree as
to just what that something was, and no one seemed to have any bursting
desire to participate in actual physical labor.

J. Foster Andrews, all traces of his former panic and confusion fled,
was planted firmly, Napoleonically, some few yards from the open port
of the life-skiff, barking impatient orders at little Tommy O'Doul
who--as Greg watched--stumbled from the port bearing a huge armload of
edibles.

'Tina, the maid, was in a frenzy of motion, trying to administer to the
complaints and demands of Mrs. Andrews (whose immaculate hair-do had
suffered in the frenetic minutes of their flight) and Crystal Andrews
(who knew perfectly well there were sweaters in the life-skiff) and
Miss Maud (who wanted a can of prepared dog-food and a can-opener
immediately, and look at poor Cuddles, momsy's 'ittle pet was _so_
hungry)!

Bert Andrews was sulkily insisting that it was nonsense to leave the
warmth and security of the skiff anyway, and he wished he had a drink,
while the harassed, self-appointed commander of the refugee corps was
shouting at whomever happened, at any given moment, to capture his
divided and completely frantic attention. His orders were masterpieces
of confusion, developing around one premise that the castaway crew
should immediately set up a camp. Where, how, or with what nonexistent
equipment, Breadon did not venture to say.

"You see what I mean?" demanded Sparks disgustedly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg Malcolm saw. He also saw other things. That their landing-spot,
while excellent for its purpose, was not by any manner of means an
ideal campsite. It was a small, flat basin of sandy soil, rimmed by
shallow mountains. His gaze sought these hills, looked approvingly on
their greenness, upon the multitude of dark pock-marks dotting them.
These caves, were they not the habitations of potential enemies, might
well become the sanctuaries of spacewrecked men.

He saw, also, a thin ribbon of silver sheering the face of the northern
hills. His gaze, rising still skyward, saw other things--

He nodded. He knew, now, where they were. Or approximately. There was
but one planet in the solar system which boasted such a phenomenon. The
apparent distance of the Sun, judged by its diminished disc, argued
his judgment to be correct. The fact that they had surged through an
atmospheric belt for some length of time before finally meeting with
disaster.

"Titan," he said. "Hyperion possibly. But probably Titan."

Sparks' gaze, following Greg's upward, contracted in an expression of
dismay.

"Dirty cow! You mean that's where we are?"

"I believe so. There's Saturn, our mother planet, looming above us as
large as a dinner plate. And the grav-drag here is almost Earth norm.
Titan has a 3,000 mile diameter. That, combined with the Saturnian
tractile constant, would give us a strong pull."

Sparks wailed, "But Titan! Great morning, Malcolm, nobody ever comes
to Titan! There ain't no mines here, no colonies, no--" He stopped
suddenly, his eyes widening yet farther. "And, hey--this place is
_dangerous_! There are--"

"I know it," said Greg swiftly, quietly. "Shut up, Sparks. No use
telling the others. If they don't guess it themselves, what they don't
know won't alarm them. We've got to do something, though. Get ourselves
organized into a defensive community. That's the only way--"

Ralph Breadon's sharp, dictatorial voice interrupted him. "Well,
Malcolm, stop soldiering and make yourself useful!"

And J. Foster, not to have his authority usurped, supplemented the
order. "Yes, Malcolm, let's get going! No time for day-dreaming, my
man. We want action!"

Sparks said, "Maybe you'll get it now, fatty!" under his breath, and
looked at Malcolm hopefully. But his companion merely nodded, moved
forward toward the others, quietly obedient to the command.

"Yes, sir," he said.

Hannigan groaned and followed him.


                                  III

Breadon said, "All right, Tommy, dump them here. I have a few words to
say." He glanced about him pompously. "Now, folks, naturally we want
to get away from here as soon as possible. Therefore I delegate you,
Sparks, to immediately get a message off. An SOS to the nearest space
cruiser."

Hannigan grinned. It was not a pleasant grin. He took his time
answering. He spat thoughtfully on the ground before him, lifted his
head. He said, "A message, huh?"

"That's what I said."

"And what'll I send it with?" drawled Sparks. "Tom-toms?"

Breadon flushed darkly.

"I believe the life-skiff was equipped with a radio? And theoretically
you are a radio operator?"

"Finest radio money can buy!" interpolated J. Foster Andrews proudly.
"Put a million credits into the _Carefree_. Best equipment throughout."

Sparks looked from one to another of them, grinned insolently. "You're
both right. I _am_ a radio operator, and there _was_ a radio. But we
crashed, remember? On account of some dope's sleeve got caught in the
master switch--"

"That will do!" snapped Breadon angrily. He stared at the bandy-legged
little redhead. "You mean the radio was broken?"

"It wasn't helped none. The tubes was made out of glass, and glass
don't bounce so good."

Greg Malcolm said thoughtfully, "Sparks, can't you fix it?"

"Well, mebbe. But not in five minutes. Maybe not in five years. I won't
know till I get going on it."

Breadon frowned.

"I'll handle this, Malcolm," he crisped. Again to the radioman, "Well,
you get to work on it immediately. And as soon as you get it fixed,
send out an SOS advising the patrol where we are--"

"Speaking of which," insinuated Sparks, "where are we?"

Breadon glared at him wrathfully.

"Why--why on one of the satellites of Saturn, of course. Any fool can
see that!"

"O.Q. But does any fool know which one? Or shall I tell you it's Titan?
And when you know that, then what? Titan wasn't named that on account
of it was a pimple. It's a big place. What'll I tell the Patrol? _SOS.
Stranded in the middle of we-don't-know-where, somewhere on Titan,
maybe._ They'll be hunting for us till we've got whiskers down to our
knees."

Breadon's irate look vanished. He looked stricken. He said, "I--I don't
know. We have a compass--"

Once again it was Gregory Malcolm who entered into the conversation. He
had been toying, almost absentmindedly, with a funnel taken from the
skiff's stores. Into this he had poured a small portion of water; his
right forefinger was pressed to the bottom of the tube, closing it. He
said, "I can answer part of that question now. Enough to cut the search
in half, anyway. We're in the northern hemisphere of the satellite."

Maud Andrews looked at him sharply as if noticing him for the first
time in her life.

"How," she asked, "did you know that, Malcolm?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg said, "Watch this." He released his finger at the base of the
funnel gently, carefully, taking care not to shake it. The captured
water swirled and trickled through the opening. Greg said, "Notice the
direction in which the water whirlpools? Clockwise. On the northern
hemisphere of any normally revolving heavenly body, water released
from a basin, funnel, container of any sort, swirls in that direction.
In the southern hemisphere it swirls counter-clockwise. Maybe you've
noticed in bathtubs, or--"

Breadon said impatiently, "Never mind the speeches, Malcolm. A very
clever bit of reasoning--if it's true. Do you think you can figure out
our exact latitude and longitude from that?"

Greg met his gaze levelly.

"Not from that," he said, "nor from anything else. Perhaps you've
forgotten that latitude and longitude are artificial inventions of
man's, based in one case on an imaginary 'equator,' and in the other on
an arbitrarily appointed 'line,' like Greenwich.

"But I believe I can approximate our position and state it in such a
way as to cut to a minimum the time of any search that might be made
for us. That is, if a space patrol ever comes close enough to get
within range of Sparks' radio."

"When," said Sparks, "and if I get it fixed."

"When," said Malcolm confidently, "you get it fixed."

Breadon gave in with as good grace as he could muster.

"Well, all right," he conceded grudgingly. "We'll let that rest for
now. Meanwhile, it is apparent that we can't escape Titan--or wherever
we are--immediately. That being the case, our first task will be to set
up a camp. This is as good a spot as any. We'll stay right here by the
ship. We'll use the ship to sleep in at nights--"

Greg coughed apologetically. "Mr. Breadon--"

"Well, what now? More funnels, Malcolm?"

"If you'll excuse me, sir--I don't believe it wise to make camp here.
Nor to use the skiff for sleeping purposes."

"And why not, my man?" That was J. Foster.

"The conservation of what little fuel and power, we have, for one
thing," said Greg. "Mr. Breadon's idea of using the skiff to sleep in
was undoubtedly based on the plan of using the heating units. That
we must not do. The time may come when we will need the skiff again,
badly. We must save its fuel and electro-motors.

"And as for making camp here beside the ship--"

He hesitated. Crystal Andrews, her voice a trifle edged, as had been
that of her father, prodded him for reply.

"Well?" she demanded. "Go on, Malcolm!"

"It wouldn't be safe, Miss. This is an exposed and vulnerable spot.
Titan has--dangerous denizens." The words came reluctantly. "It would
be much safer to take refuge in the hills. In one of those caves up
there."

Crystal gasped, "Caves! Us--living in a cave! Ridiculous!" J. Foster
echoed her words vehemently. Breadon laughed curtly; Mrs. Andrews
made a gesture of repugnance with a slim, pale, exquisitely manicured
hand. Bert Andrews snorted. Of the tycoon's family, only Maud Andrews
showed any inclination to heed the secretary's suggestion. Her old eyes
glinted shrewdly; her head made the ghost of a pleased nod.

       *       *       *       *       *

But others more openly approved his plan. The maid, 'Tina, watching
Malcolm with curious attentiveness, nodded and said, "That is wise.
I have heard tales about Titan and its--its denizens." Tommy O'Doul
grinned delightedly. He said, "Caves! Boy, caves! Old-time stuff, huh,
Greg?" And Sparks Hannigan had said, "That's right, folks! And it's
past noon now. Might as well get going right away so's we can get
settled before dark. Right, Greg?"

And yet again there was the counter-play, the balance of Breadon's
wealth, Breadon's name and Breadon's accustomed authority to the calm,
sane logic of the slim young secretary. Breadon's curt laugh changed to
something definitely antagonistic; his words sheered the muttering like
a keen blade.

"Very interesting, Malcolm! But wholly impractical and completely
absurd. We will remain here. And now--" He glanced at the high-riding
sun. "And now I think we should eat before setting up our camp. Tommy,
Hannigan--bring the electro-stove from the skiff. 'Tina, prepare lunch.
We'll pursue a more intelligent discussion of our situation on full
stomachs. Malcolm, bring cases from the skiff. We'll build a rough
table out here in the open."

He scowled impatiently, authoritatively about the strangely silent
group.


                                  IV

At that moment Gregory Malcolm realized what he must do. It was not
a pleasant realization. Greg Malcolm was an easy-going, a peaceful,
a placid man. The secretarial type. Sparks had called him a--what
was it?--a "stuffed shirt." Never, save in rare moments of dreamful
imagining, had Greg ventured to impress his opinions, his will, upon
the desires of fellow men.

But he, of all those now surrounding him, seemed to understand, fully
and completely, the crisis which now faced their refugee group. And
he--it was made apparent to him by the pompousness of Foster Andrews,
by the mulish petulance of Bert Andrews, by the aloof hauteur of
Crystal and Mrs. Andrews, by the suicidal "orders" just given by Ralph
Breadon--he alone was, in this moment of need, capable of deciding the
destinies of the Earth-exiles.

J. Foster Andrews had the acumen and common-sense to lead them--but
he had not the requisite knowledge. Breadon had the training, the
space-experience--but he lacked solid horse-sense, and his decisions
were too strongly flavored by his own savor of self-importance. Yet
if they, ten humans, were to exist for a week ... a month ... a
year ... until help reached them, someone must command. And he, Gregory
Malcolm, was the only one capable of taking into his hands the reins of
rulership.

It was a knowledge at once heady, intoxicating and frightening.
But--there it was! It had to be faced. And Greg moved, grimly but
methodically, to the accomplishment of that which he deemed necessary.
He halted the radioman with a gesture.

"Wait a minute, Sparks! Tommy, wait! 'Tina!" And he faced Breadon
firmly. "We are not going to do that, Mr. Breadon," he said. "It would
not be wise. We are not going to do it."

Breadon's brown features darkened with swift anger.

"What? What's this?"

And J. Foster Andrews waddled forward, puffing irate astonishment.
"Here, here, Malcolm! What do you mean? This is--hrrumph!--blasted
impertinence, sir! Insubordination!"

Malcolm held his ground, his pale cheeks oddly flushed.

"We are not going to do these things," he repeated slowly, definitely.
"Breadon--" It did not occur to him that unconsciously he had abandoned
the respectful, formal "Mr." which heretofore he had never ommitted.
"Breadon, your orders clearly indicate that you have not in any way
grasped the full implications of our plight.

"I have already warned that we should not make needless use of our
limited fuel and power reserves. Yet you've told Tommy to bring the
electro-stove. I have hinted that there are dangerous antagonists on
Titan, yet you wish boldly to tempt attack by cooking and eating here
on this exposed plain in broad daylight. Common sense should advise you
of the folly of eating what few food stores we hold in reserve, yet you
calmly command the preparation of a full and wasteful meal."

He did not make mention of the other, perhaps irrelevant but
nonetheless rankling detail. That never once had Breadon offered
to help in these doings, nor had any member of the Andrews clan
volunteered to assist; that the physical labor had arbitrarily been
assigned to those of lesser caste--himself, Hannigan, young Tommy,
'Tina.

"Therefore," he continued doggedly, "I, for one, am refusing to obey
your orders. I do so because I must. Call it 'insubordination' if you
wish, Andrews--" The older man spluttered incoherently, mauve-jowled.
"--but I would call it the 'will-to-exist.' The law of survival. I mean
to survive on this unknown, hostile planet. That can't be done if we
squander resources as Breadon apparently means to."

       *       *       *       *       *

A moment of tight silence answered his outburst. A slow, awkward
movement stirred through the little group. It was, Greg sensed, a
movement of alignment. He could sense, rather than see, the unconscious
coalition of his sympathizers behind him; could see, without sensing,
the outraged drawing-together of the Andrews husband and wife, _fille_
and _fils_, beside Breadon. One there was whose bright, intent eyes
were clouded with uncertainty. Maud Andrews. Then, as if irresistibly
drawn by the bonds of blood, she too looked to Breadon as her spokesman.

Breadon's voice was a thick flame of wrath.

"So that's the way it is, eh, Malcolm! Well, this had to come sooner or
later. Might as well have it over with right now. Get the glasses off,
my pale young friend! One leader is all we'll have around here!"

He stepped forward, bigger, browner, heavier than Malcolm. There was
a rustle behind Greg; Sparks had stepped to his side, was pressing
something into his hand.

"This'll make him behave, Greg."

"Put it away!" said Greg coldly. "We'll have better use for
firearms later on. I'll handle this the way Breadon wants." Slowly,
painstakingly, he removed his plasta-rimmed glasses, slipped them
in a lucite case, slid the case into a pocket, removed his trimly
cut double-breasted business coat, handed it to the grumbling little
redhead.

"But look--" growled Sparks. Then stopped. There was a newness about
Greg Malcolm that stopped him. With the goggles removed, he thought
dimly, Malcolm's eyes looked different. Less soft and meeky-mosey. They
were like--sort of like chunks of grey flint. And Greg wasn't as skinny
as he had looked, now that you saw him with his coat off. He was lean,
yes--but there was a greyhound whippiness to his leanness; a tight,
spring-coiled sort of strength.

"Well?" said Greg. "You're ready, Breadon?"

Breadon's answer was a sudden, rushing charge. One of the women gasped;
there came the whipping splat of flesh striking flesh, then all noises
muted save the sound of two men meeting in face-to-face conflict.
Breadon's left jarred Greg back, his right swung wide and hard to put a
swift end to the dispute--

But found no target. For leanly, deftly, with pantherlike swiftness,
Greg was out from under the blow; his own left, probing sharply,
flicked once ... twice ... again into his antagonist's face, jarring
Breadon, shocking, stunning him, halting his bull-like rush and jolting
him back on his heels.

Maddened, Breadon whirled, seeking this will-o-the-wisp whose jabbing
lefts stung like salt in an open wound. He growled something that was
never completed, for knuckles bruised the word against his lips. Blood
sprang, saline and hot in his mouth; the taste of it edged his rage to
inchoate blindness, he flailed out recklessly, forgetful of anything he
had previously known about fighting.

And that was his undoing. Against his bulky charge, Greg could do
nothing but fight the kind of fleeting defensive battle he had learned
in long hours at the gymnasium. A maddened warrior like this was a
different matter, though; he was a vulnerable fighter.

Calmly and with infinite assurance, Greg stepped inside Breadon's
swinging arms, beneath his faulty guard. His right hand came up once,
sharply, to Breadon's jaw. The big man spluttered pink spray, lifted
his arms. Again Greg lashed out with his left, this time to the belly;
Breadon gasped and his mouth remained open, sagging.

Like the whipping length of a python, Malcolm threw that lean,
deadly-sure right again--this time squarely to the other man's jaw at
the spot where jawbone meets the ear. The blow cracked in the dull,
astonished silence like the chunk of a heart-biting axe on timber.
Breadon straightened slowly, numbly, in a meaningless reflex. The fire
went out of his eyes; their brownness dulled like sun-faded velvet.
Then he fell. As a tall building might fall. Crumpling ... the knees
folding first, the body sagging, the shoulders, the head helpless and
rolling. In sections. He rolled once and lay still.

Sparks Hannigan said, "Gawddle-mighty!" His voice was feeble, awestruck.

Greg Malcolm's fists, falling to his sides, uncoiled reluctantly. As if
they had gripped the fiery baton of his anger, the battle-urge slipped
from him with their unclenching. He drew a deep breath to steady his
ragged breathing, nodded to the wide-eyed 'Tina.

"Take care of him," he said. "Water. He'll be all right in a minute."
He faced the others, his manner an odd mixture of apology and
aggressiveness. "Breadon said there could be but one in command," he
said. "Let us hope that is definitely settled. For all time. And now I
will ask all of you to help. Our first step will be to strip the skiff
of the equipment we may need and carry it into the hills. In one of
those caves we will make our head-quarters."

But the fight was to have its aftermath. Crystal Andrews it was who
burst from the little knot before him to kneel at her fiancés side,
taking Breadon's head in her arms, glaring rage and hot defiance at
Greg.

"With you?" she cried. "With _you_, you--cheap, upstart bully? Not in a
million years! Ralph--Ralph, dear, are you all right? Did he hurt you?"

She jerked the water-soaked handkerchief from the maid's hands, pressed
its coolness to Breadon's sand-bruised forehead. Breadon's eyes opened,
dazed at first, then full of awareness, sultry, indignant, incredulous.
He moved to get on his feet again. Greg stared at him coldly.

"Get up if you want to, Breadon. But don't get up fighting!"

Hannigan chuckled. "He ain't hurt much. Just his conceit. It's punched
full of right and left hand wallops."

"That will do, Sparks!" snapped Greg. He looked at the others,
replacing his glasses carefully, a vague sorrow in his eyes, defeat
in his voice despite his victory. "You all feel that way? You still
refuse--?"

Crystal Andrews' cried out, "Talk! Talk! Will you stop talking and go?
Go to the hills if you want to. Leave us in peace. We don't want you
and don't need you. Go to the hills--and good riddance to you!"

The tiny gimlet of hurt that lay somewhere deep inside of Greg twisted
once more at her words, snapped, became suddenly cold and bitter. His
jaw set. He nodded to Sparks.

"Very well. If that's your desire. Sparks, there are four of us, six
of them. Take an inventory of all equipment and supplies in the skiff.
We will take exactly four-tenths of everything ... fuel, power units,
food, water ... everything. Get going. I'll help you directly."

Sparks said, "The radio?"

"We'll take that. You're the only one capable of repairing it. We'll
save them in spite of themselves. If we can."

Sparks said, "Aye, sir! Come on, Tommy. 'Tina." He started toward the
crashed skiff. Greg hesitated, feeling the desire to say something,
to make one final plea, not knowing what to say or how to say it,
restrained by the yet cold anger etched on his heart by Crystal's
scorn. Then he too turned to help. A strident voice halted him.

"Just a moment, young man!"

"Yes, Miss Andrews?"

Maud Andrews, Cuddles firmly cradled to her ample bosom, left her
brother's side and marched toward the life-skiff.

"Tell Sparks to make that a fifty-fifty division," she said. "There
will be five of us in the hills."

       *       *       *       *       *

Enid Andrews bleated faintly. Crystal, still kneeling, stared at her
aunt incredulously. J. Foster Andrews vented his indignation in a
sudden, blustering roar. "Maud! Don't be a blasted idiot! Come back
here this minute!"

Maud Andrews continued to surge inexorably forward.

"I'm not," she grunted, "being an idiot! It's you who are, my dear,
fat, dimwitted brother! I'm a selfish, pampered old fool, but I
know common-sense when I hear it, and I know a man when I see one.
Furthermore, silly as you may think it, I have a ridiculous desire to
keep on living. I may have to _work_ to do that, and I'm not overly
fond of work, but if Mr. Malcolm will have me--?"

"Just plain 'Malcolm,' Miss Andrews," said Greg gravely, gratefully.
"And I'm happy you see it my way."

"Tut! I'm not doing you a favor, Malcolm! I'm just looking out for
myself, as I always do. Well, Sparks, don't stand there yawping like my
thick-pated brother! What can I do to help?"

She waddled away. Greg glanced hopefully at those still waiting,
immobile.

"Won't you--" he began, "Won't the rest of you--"

The eyes that met his were glacial. Bert Andrews, thick-lipped and
bridling, snarled disdain. "The hell with you, Malcolm! The sooner you
get out of here, the better!"

Greg said, "We'll let you know where to find us. If you should--should
need us, just call."

"We won't need you." That was Crystal, coldly.

"I hope you won't," said Greg. "I sincerely hope you won't...."


                                   V

Sparks Hannigan came out grinning. He said, "This one looks like the
business, Greg. Plenty of room. Dry and warm. It's even got a natural
fluevent so's we can have a fireplace inside."

Greg nodded, pleased.

"Sounds good. I was beginning to think we'd never find a suitable cave.
This one's within easy reach of that spring, too; that solves the fresh
water problem. Well, we might as well get settled. Getting toward
evening."

'Tina glanced at the sky, surprised. "So soon? I didn't know it had
taken us so long. It seems as if only a few hours ago it was noon."

"It was," grinned Greg. "Titan's days are shorter than Earth's. Its
diameter is only about 3,000 miles. By Earth measurements you'd say
Titan had a sixteen hour day."

"And the 'day,'" grumbled Sparks, "ain't none too bright at that. On
account of we're so far from the Sun."

"You haven't seen the worst of it. Right now we're on the Sun side
of Saturn. We revolve about our primary once every 500-odd hours.
Since Saturn is so large, when we are to the lee of it, it eclipses
us entirely. So for about five days every Titan 'month' we suffer a
complete blackout.

"And that--" Greg sobered. "That is another reason the others should
dig into a good warm cave. It gets plenty cold during that eclipse
period. An open camp on an exposed plain--" He shook his head.

Maud Andrews said, "I can't understand why this satellite is habitable
at all. I was under the impression that Saturn is a frozen planet."

"It is. Its surface temperature is approximately 300° below zero,
Fahrenheit. But the warmth of its numerous satellites is one of the
astonishing discoveries made by the early space explorers, fifty
or sixty years ago. Scientists have not yet explained the matter
satisfactorily. Some say the tremendous mass of Saturn, the waves of
atmospherics set up by its swirling motion and the 'grindstone' of
its ring, form an electronic barrier-shield for the satellites. Still
others believe that frigid Saturn acts as a gigantic mirror or solar
reflector for its children."

"But Greg--" That was Tommy O'Doul. "Why ain't there any colonies
here if the climate's O.Q.? Men live on Venus, where it's hot as
billy-be-hanged, and on Uranus, which is nothing but a ball of ice, and
on a bunch of cold, airless asteroids--"

"Economics, Tommy. The simple, single dictator of mankind's every
venture. Venus has valuable vegetation, Uranus and the asteroids have
important metals that can't be duplicated in Earth's laboratories,
the asteroids have rare ore deposits. There is not--or at least there
has not as yet been discovered--anything native to Titan that cannot
be mined or made elsewhere more cheaply, more easily. Some day man's
ever-expanding frontiers will claim this satellite as a colony, too.
But now that the entire universe is open to man, the human race can
increase a millionfold and _still_ allow every soul more _lebensraum_
than he can possibly use."

Sparks Hannigan gazed at him admiringly.

"It's stoo-pendous!" he said.

"Titan? Not any more so than--"

"Not Titan. You. You know everything, don't you? Pal--" Sparks
shook his head. "I sure had you figgered wrong. I thought you was a
soft-soaping dope. So then you got us off the _Carefree_ onto the
skiff, cooled Breadon like a herring, declared yourself _It_ and made
us like it--"

Greg said, "Nonsense! I just happened to--Oh, nonsense! Shall we go
into our new home?" But he flushed.

By evening--Titan's short, grey shadowed evening, the only logical
unit of duration by which they could live so long as they remained
captive here--their new cave home began to take on some semblance of
lived-inness.

Vegetation was abundant on the hillsides. Sparks and Tommy had
gathered heaps of dry faggots while Greg built a crude stone fireplace
underneath the fluevent Sparks had reported; shortly thereafter the
women had a cheerful blaze crackling on the hearth, and mingled with
its grateful warmth was the odor of a savory stew, welcome scent to
the nostrils of five who had worked long and hard in gathering the
vegetables that had gone into that potage.

"Eat nothing," Greg had warned, "dig nothing that does not show signs
of having been eaten, dug or picked by wild animals. Later we can make
chemical analysis of dubious foods to determine their edibility. For
the present we will depend on the most certain test, the acceptance by
other flesh-and-blood creatures."

He had also permitted that a single can of bouillon concentrate be used
in the stew. "For flavoring. There is so little food in reserve that
we must save it against the cold, dark days when we can't get out to
gather supplies. Later on we'll have fresh meat."

He looked thoughtfully at Cuddles, sniffing, yapping excitedly by the
fireplace, and Maud Andrews, with a swift, maternal gesture, swept the
poodle into her arms and glared at him belligerently.

"Oh, no you don't! You'll eat _me_ first!"

"I wasn't thinking of that," said Greg indignantly. "I had something
else in mind. A poodle, eh? Hmmm!"

'Tina and young Tommy came into the cave, arms full of fresh and
fragrant ferns which they dumped beside a wall. Greg, glancing at
them, could not curb his astonishment at the overwhelmingly sudden
change that had come over 'Tina. During the _Carefree's_ cruise, during
the years he had worked for old J. Foster, he had seen the girl a
thousand times--but never, he discovered now, really _seen_ her before!
Always she had been a dim, dusty figure in the background. A foil for
the spoiled, immaculate perfection of Enid Andrews, the glittering,
heart-stopping beauty of Crystal.

Now, viewed as a woman and a comrade, he was aware that she was
lovely herself. Slim as a rush, and yielding-strong as that same wild
water-flower; dark-eyed; hair as the Martian midnight with live lights
glinting in it, too, as the stars glinted over the Martian deserts;
soft, white hands, graceful but capable--

But here! he thought, what nonsense was this? He had work to do. And
this was no time for weaving poetic cadences about a girl who was
practically a total stranger!

Now she laughed, gaily, her very laughter seeming to burst from a heart
happy with newfound freedom. And she said, "It was just as you said,
Greg. We found the ferns down by the spring. Did we bring enough of
them?"

Greg said, "Enough for tonight. They'll make comfortable beds. Later on
Sparks and I will build real beds for all of us. Thank goodness there
was a tool-chest on the skiff. You folks ready to eat?"

Hannigan lifted his nose from the fireplace.

"Ready! _I_ been ready for a half hour, and my stummick's been ready
for a week!"

And somehow it didn't seem at all surprising to Greg that Maud
Andrews should be the one who, sleeves rolled up, face flushed with
hearth-heat, warmth and good fellowship, seized the ladle, beat on the
side of the pot vigorously and bawled, in what was far from a wealthy
socialite's cultured tone, "Come and get it! Come and get it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

So, somehow, the first day was over ... and the second day, too ...
and a week of Titan's sixteen hour days slid past so quickly that Greg
could not truly say where they had disappeared.

Duties, chores, at first chaotic became matters of mere routine as
one or another of the little band took them on his own shoulders.
Maud Andrews, who on the second day bluntly and surprisingly startled
everyone with the pronunciamento that henceforth there would be, "--no
more of this 'Miss Andrews' stuff; call me 'Aunt Maud'; I'm old enough
to have mothered every last one of you!", set herself up as cook, thus
freeing 'Tina to take care of the multitude of other household--or
cave-hold--duties. And an excellent cook she turned out to be,
performing miracles with the odd, variegated samples of produce brought
to her by the rest of the group.

Her once-aroused suspicion flared again when Greg casually requested,
one day, permission to take Cuddles for a little run in the woods. She
clucked to her pet, turned him over to Greg, but watchfully.

"I don't know what you have in mind, Greg Malcolm. But if you come back
here with any sinister looking pieces of meat and no Cuddles--"

"I'm hoping to come back," confessed Greg, "with both meat _and_
Cuddles. He's a poodle, isn't he? Well, he's always been a lap-dog
to you, but I have an idea maybe his heritage will overcome his
habits when I get him out into the woods. The poodle, in its earliest
beginnings, used to be a hunting dog, you know. It was bred and trained
especially for that purpose. Of course his nose may have been ruined by
being pampered, but--"

"My Cuddles," exclaimed Aunt Maud, "a hunting dog!" She looked
horrified.

Greg said slyly, "I hope so. He wouldn't be the first member of this
party to prove his true worth beneath a thin veneer of civilization."

Aunt Maud's cheeks were red, but it might have been the warmth of the
fire. And maybe the wood-smoke made her eyes shine like that, too. She
pushed Greg roughly.

"Oh, run along!" she ordered. "But mind you bring him back unchanged!"

"Okay, Auntie," Greg said.

Greg brought him back, but not unchanged. For the poodle had,
amazingly, reverted to type, once set on the trail of wild game. Greg
carried back to the dinner table two small creatures, one vaguely
resembling a squirrel, one definitely allied to the rabbit family,
plunked them proudly before his companions.

"Don't give me credit. It was the pup. He's a humdinger. You should
have seen him tree that squirrel--or whatever it is! And that
rabbit-thing--he went scrambling halfway down a warren after it! Didn't
you, Slewfoot?"

The dog yerped happily. Aunt Maud moaned.

"Slewfoot! Oh, my gracious! Cuddles, come here to momsy-womsy wight
away! Did nassy-mans call him--"

Cuddles made no move to obey. Greg whistled, and the dog looked up.
"Okay, Slewfoot. Go to momma!" And the dog pranced over to Aunt Maud.
Greg grinned. "I think he likes his new name better," he said.

Slewfoot yerped again in an ecstasy of approval.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so, gradually, life became easier and smoother and happier for
the quintet of cave-dwellers. Beds took the place of piled ferns, the
woodpile towered toward the cave roof against the days of dark and cold
which, according to Greg's computations, might be expected within the
next week or so, food was varied and plentiful, and a needed food was
supplied when Tommy O'Doul marched triumphantly home with a bawling kid
in his arms.

Sparks glared at him.

"Hey, youngster, what did you tote that home for? We ain't got no room
for pets. And that thing ain't ripe to be et yet."

Tommy said, "I had to bring it. It was the only way I could make its
mom follow me. See?"

And sure enough, a few yards away, anxiously eying its captive
offspring, was a mother goat. Or something like a goat, anyway. Sparks
caught on them. A flying tackle and the camp had corraled its first
head of livestock. And from then on there was milk.

And there were songs in the evening, and card games and stories and
compensations for the long, hard tasks of the daytime. Sparks labored
on his radio set, though without too much hope. "Smashed to hell and
gone, Greg. The tubes is the wust part. I could jockey the wires
around. But glass--"

Greg looked thoughtful. "I wonder," he said. "I wonder? Well--do what
you can with the metallic parts."

So they waited and worked, and in some dim corner of their minds
continued to hope for the release which all in some vague fashion
expected might come "some day." And their camaraderie was great and
wholesome, but there was a single subject they never mentioned. The
other quintet on the plain below. From their hillside eyrie they
could see the other camp, but by common consent they made no effort to
approach Breadon's followers. They had offered assistance and it had
been refused. They could do nothing more, now, unless--

The unless came sooner than they expected. In the still of the night
it came in the dark, multi-mooned Saturnian night, when Greg and his
comrades were all asleep in their bunks.

Greg woke with a strained feeling that he could not at first identify.
He only knew, as a newly awakened sleeper dimly knows, that something
was amiss.

Then, as he listened, he heard it again. The sound of a firing rifle.
And the thin, muted whisper of a cry from the clearing below. A voice
lifted in dismay.

With a start he was on his feet.

"Sparks!"

Hannigan bounced from his blankets like a redheaded ball of rubber. He
was on his feet, scrubbing his eyes with the backs of his hands, even
before he knew he was awake.

"Smatta? Whuzzup, Greg? Smatta?"

"Below!" roared Greg. "The party in the valley--they're in trouble of
some kind! Get your gun and come on!"


                                  VI

The others were awake now. Young Tommy was aquake with excitement. He
made a headlong dash for the dry niche wherein were stored the arms of
the cave-dwellers, came back dragging three rifles, handed one to Greg
and another to Hannigan.

"Let's get going, Greg!" he yelped. "Golly Moses, what do you think it
is? Animals, maybe? Or people? Gosh, let's get going!"

Greg took the spare rifle from him firmly.

"_We'll_ go; _you_ stay." Then, in swift contrition as the lad's face
fell measurable inches. "Someone must guard the cave while we're gone,
Tommy. 'Tina, build up the fire and put a kettle on. Aunt Maud--"

The old woman nodded grimly.

"I know. We'll have hot water ready. And bandages if you need 'em. Run
along!"

How they ever got down that mountain-side so quickly was ever afterward
a mystery to Greg. It was not exactly a painless descent; their
progress was a series of runs, falls and buttock-bruising slides. The
footing, in broad daylight, was precarious at best; with only sallow
Saturn and the aura of the Rings to illumine their way, it is a wonder
they ever reached the plain whole, in a single piece.

To add to their frenetic haste, in their ears there rang the constant
challenge of gunfire. Crimson flashes lit the flatsward below, once a
whining slug, miserably aimed, made both of them duck instinctively
as it shrilled somewhere over their heads, _spanged!_ against a rock
behind them, went ricochetting off into the darkness.

For now they were on level ground, and mingled with the rattle of arms
there was another sound, the purling whimper of tongueless, inhuman
things astir and hungry. Greg had once heard, on Earth, the furtive
night-passage of a jackal tribe; the soft, half plaintive mewlings, the
incessant scrape of scrabbling paws, the ammoniac stench of unwashed
bodies. He thought of this now, sharply, as he heard these mutterings,
smelled these rank odors, strained his eyes to determine contours in
the darkling night.

Hannigan complained, "You see 'em, Greg? It's dark as a whale's gut. I
can't see nothing. What'll we fire at? Are our folks out in the open or
in the skiff? We might hit _them_ if--"

Greg said, "We'll know in a minute." As they moved forward he tugged
from his belt the weapon he had been holding in reserve; the one such
weapon found amongst the stores of the life-skiff; one he dared use but
infrequently because once its charge was exhausted he had no way of
replenishing it. "We should be near enough now. Spot 'em quick and fire
while there's light!"

He jerked the trigger of the Haemholst flame pistol. A writhing
streamer of ochre speared from its muzzle, lighting the plain with a
hot and eerie effulgence. Like a fiery dart it blazed into the heart of
the pack surrounding the life-skiff. By its lingering gleam Greg saw,
with stomach-churning repulsion, the creatures which attacked.

Neither men nor wolves were they, but a cruel parody on each. Lean,
hair-matted beast-things running on four legs, semi-human of feature
but with loose lips snarling back from yellow fangs; fingered paws
long-clawed; indescribably evil and filthy; the more inhuman because
they embodied so many physical attributes of Man.

Their pack must have numbered three score, ranging from gray-pelted old
ones to skinny, ragged pups. Apparently they had surprised the plateau
party in the open, allowing them no time to remove their precious
campstuffs, because the ground about, around and before the skiff was
littered with a refuse of clothing, blankets, supplies and equipment,
cases and scraps of food.

It was for this last that the wolf-men had attacked, because even as
the ochre beam found their midst, they were scrambling hungrily about
the campsite, avidly gobbling all edible scraps they could nose out.
A few more aggressive ones scented richer victuals; these it was who,
despite the sporadic fire from within the skiff, snuffled, clawed and
clamored at the port.

       *       *       *       *       *

Until the heat-beam struck them. That put an end to their hunger and
their blood-lust. Like any wild woodland animal, they had no fear
of firearms; they had no experience with them. Bullets that struck,
killed; wolf-men untouched by bullets had no way of associating hurt
with a sharp burst of sound and a strange, unfamiliar powder-scent.

But light--light that burned the hair and scorched the flesh; light
that spared not one of them, but spread to dose all with its heatful
pain--that was something different! As the beam struck and spread,
snuffings changed to bestial screams of fear and pain. Those nearest
the beam's focal point felt no pain; they died instantly, charred
hulks that crisped and sank, shapeless, to the ground. And from these
strangely altered, swiftly dead companions the others fled, howling
in shrill alarm. Their footsteps were the dry patter of leaves on
shale; they broke and ran wildly for the nether hills, tonguing shrill
ululations of hurt.

Then the door of the skiff opened cautiously; dim light was a sliver, a
crack, an oblong. And the voice of J. Foster Andrews quavered through
the darkness to their ears. It sounded shrill and afraid.

"Malcolm--is that you?"

Sparks snorted derisively. "Ain't that awful?" he demanded. "Is that
you!" He raised his voice. "Hell, no, it ain't him! It's the Gray
Lensman. Who'd you think?"

"Shut up, Sparks!" Greg said, "Hold your fire, the wolf-things are
gone. We're coming in!"

A few moments later, he and Hannigan were standing within the
life-skiff.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gregory Malcolm was twenty-six years old. For more than eight years
he had been training himself to undergo any and all emotions without
change of expression. That was, in his opinion, a prime requisite
for a man whose vocation lay in a subordinate position. Now he was
grateful for learning that self-control, and hoped his features were as
granitelike as he tried to make them. He hoped his eyes did not mirror
the astonishment, the shock, the numb dismay he felt when he first
glanced about the interior of that cabin, and at those who stood before
him.

It was incredible that in one short week--one very short Titanian
week--so great a change could have been wrought in this haughty
quintet. _His_ followers were weathering the storm of catastrophe
without faltering, without any relaxation of civilized standards. But
Breadon's--

He studied them, his quietude concealing the sudden heartsickness he
knew, his spectacles hiding the swift light of horror in his eyes. The
men had not shaved, it was clear, since their crash-landing. Five day
stubble lay frostily on the jowls of J. Foster Andrews, blackly on the
cheeks of his son and son-in-law to-be.

Nor did slovenliness end there. Beneath the beard-growth, the skin
of the men looked dirty, dingy, sallow, as if they had not washed
for days. Their clothes were equally soiled and sorry. Greg saw that
J. Foster's nails were dull and broken and grubby as the nails of a
stevedore.

He rallied himself with an effort. These were men. They had been
working hard, laboring. They could not stay immaculate. They had been
in a fight.

Then he looked at the women, and knew that he made excuses vainly. It
was even more disillusioning to see what had happened to Mrs. Andrews
and Crystal in so short a time.

Enid Andrews, fashion-plate of two continents, one of Earth's
smartest-dressed women, thrice-named by fashion authorities as Best
Dressed Woman in the Solar Confederation, hobbled sloppily about on
scuffed slippers, the heel of one of which had broken off and not been
replaced, so that her posture sagged like a bag of meal, split at a
side-seam and sifting awkwardly away. Her once elaborate coiffure was a
bird's-nest of tangled braids which hung unbraided, curls that sagged
limply; hastily adjusted pins and combs clung insecurely to locks that,
once pearl-silver, were now clay-crusted gray.

Crystal--glamorous, pulse-stirring Crystal--was in no better plight.
Her gorgeous ash-gold hair was pulled severely back from a forehead
which, Greg discovered, was not nearly so broad and smooth and high
as he had imagined; the artificial color had rubbed from her cheeks,
leaving them lustreless and sullen; her lips--ever rich, ripe,
full--were pale and harsh-thin and her mouth had tight, argumentative
lines at the corners. Her eyes were dark-rimmed, weary, haggard. She
was, thought Greg with shocked comprehension, a tired girl.

They were all tired. Tired and beaten and dejected. All but Breadon
who, even now, was eyeing Greg defiantly, as if challenging him to
comment on their condition. He said, bitterly, "Thank you, Malcolm. It
was a most magnanamous gesture, coming down from your hilltop castle to
rescue us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg said nothing. He was looking about the interior of the cabin,
noticing with incredulous disfavor the way it had been abused,
littered, left uncleaned. Ashes, dirty dishes, scraps of cloth and
paper, fragments of cartons and dirt tracked in from outside....

But Hannigan was not bound by Greg's compunctions. He spoke his mind
frankly, staring at the five skiff-dwellers with obvious contempt in
his eyes.

"If you'd ask me," he said, "it's damn near time somebody come down and
rescued you. Not from wolves, neither. From yourselves. You all look
like you'd been drug through the butt end of a wringer."

"Well, we have," began Bert Andrews savagely. "We have been through--"

"Shut up, you fool!" Breadon cut short his plaint viciously; blustered
defiance that was in itself an apology. "We've been busy making a camp
around here. We haven't had time to--"

Sparks drawled, "Bud, we been busy making a camp, too, in a place which
wasn't already equipped with furnishings, like your'n. And I think we
done a better job of it. And in between times, we found time to shave
and bathe once in a while."

Andrews flushed and said stiffly, "There is a need of being provident
with water. Our supply is limited--"

Greg said, "What? You mean you've been using the water reserve from the
life-skiff?"

Enid Andrews answered. Excitedly. Volubly. Almost at the point of
tears. She wrung her hands, and Greg could not help noticing the
anomaly of those at once dirty and gem-bedecked fingers.

"We have. Oh, we have. There's no other water anywhere around here.
Nor food. We've been living on concentrates ... sickening, horrible
stuff...."

"That's not true!" flamed Breadon. "We did have other food. I made
bread. I caught small game. I put out traps. There would have been
plenty of food except for the wolf-men who raided tonight. They broke
our stove ... stole my reserves...."

"Which," mocked Sparks, "you conveniently left out for them to sniff
and come a-running after? Why don't you call it a day, Breadon? Admit
you're nothing but a cocky Earthlubber at heart and--"

"Why, you little whippersnapper!" Breadon took a swift step forward.
But Greg had heard enough. He laid a restraining hand on the
socialite's arm. His voice was as soothing, as pleading, as he could
make it.

"Haven't we had enough of that already? Look here, Breadon, let's let
bygones be bygones. We've had our little quarrel, now let's act like
sane and sensible humans.

"You're not situated here any too well. You've admitted you're not
near a water supply. The terrain is open to attack, as is proven by
tonight's incident. You've been, well--let's say 'unlucky.'

"On the other hand--we've been lucky. We've got a nice, warm cave
large enough to house all ten of us easily. We have soft beds and
good food and fresh milk; safety and good fellowship. With some of
the things you have in here--those upholstered chairs, for instance;
what remains of your equipment and supplies, we could make a veritable
paradise of our cave.

"So what do you say? Let's cast in our lots together. Make it one big,
happy family?"

       *       *       *       *       *

J. Foster looked at him thoughtfully. Enid Andrews began to cry softly.
Crystal glanced at Ralph, then at Greg, than at Breadon again. Bert
Andrews stroked his chin. He said, "It sounds good--"

Breadon interrupted.

"There's just one thing, Malcolm," he said curtly. "We'll accept
your--your overtures of friendship on one condition. That you'll
step down from the high horse you've been riding lately, come to the
realization that you're not cock-o'-the-walk around these parts."

Greg said gravely, "If you mean that our community shall be a society
in which all share and share alike, I am in complete agreement with
you."

"That's what I mean," said Breadon. "Of course, we all recognize that
there must be leadership. As our oldest man, our most important member,
Mr. Andrews is that logical leader. I can assure you, acting as his
lieutenant--"

"No!" said Sparks loudly. "It's the same old thing in a different
package, Greg. He wants to be boss, else he won't play. The answer
is--comets to you, Breadon. We're doing all right the way we are;
you're making a mess of your affairs. As far as I'm concerned, you can
stay here and stew in your own gravy!"

He turned toward the door. Greg said, "Wait, Sparks. I'll be right with
you." And he, too, nodded at Breadon. "I fear Sparks is right, Breadon.
You haven't learned your lesson yet. We're going back where we belong.
We're glad to have been of some small service to you. If you ever need
us again, just call. Meanwhile, my offer remains open. If you should
ever decide to join us on _our_ terms--"

A loud and cheerful voice interrupted him. A voice from outside,
bellowing gay greeting, "Ahoy, you in there! Open the door!"

Sparks said, "Aunt Maud! What's she--?" and pulled the door open. In
the oblong, against the slow gray dawn now crawling above the hilltops,
stood Aunt Maud, a huge grin on her face, a tremendous bowl in her
stalwart arms. From the bowl rose a tantalizing aroma. She waddled in,
plunked it on the nearest desk.

"Thought you folks might be sort of hungry after a scrap," she grinned.
"Watched it from the cave. Nice, cozy place to watch a fight from. Saw
morning was coming on, so I brought you down some breakfast.

"Sister--" She glanced at the sallow-cheeked Enid shrewdly. "You
look sort of peaked. You too, Crystal. You look older, honey. Well,
Greg--ready? We'd better be running along. 'Tina's got our breakfast
almost ready. Fruit juice and porridge and pancakes with butter and
sugar-syrup. Sounds good, eh? Well, 'bye, folks!"

And by main force she herded the two men swiftly out of the skiff.
Outside, moving toward the hill, Sparks turned on her pettishly.

"Now, what did you go and do that for, Aunt Maud--you've gummed up
everything! Greg was telling 'em off; just beginning to make 'em listen
to reason--"

Aunt Maud grinned and winked broadly at Greg.

"Sparks, are all radiomen as dumb as you, or do you hold the
championship? Greg could talk from now to doomsday and not get anywhere
with that outfit. I _know_. They're my own haughty, independent,
pigheaded flesh and blood.

"But that stew I brought them--" She chuckled and rolled her eyes
delightedly. "Now, that's a _real_ argument. The best their bellies
ever listened to. Just wait and see!"


                                  VII

The truth of her statement was exhibited very soon. That very
afternoon, in fact. The dim Titanian sun was settling toward the
westward hilltops, and Greg was just putting the finishing touches to
a crude grist-mill he was rigging for the women, when there came the
scrape of hesitant footsteps up the rocky pathway.

Hannigan had been away since breakfast time, making a survey of the
natural resources within easy distance of their cave. Greg thought it
was the radioman returning.

"Hi!" he shouted over his shoulder, without looking back. "Any luck?
What did you find?" Then, as no voluble, profane, fantastic answer
was forthcoming, he turned around. His eyes momentarily betrayed his
astonishment. "Oh! Hello, Andrews!" he said.

Bert Andrews shuffled uncomfortably. His gaze held a curious mixture
of wistfulness, reluctance and expectancy. He said, in a voice that
was a trifle too breathlessly nonchalant, "Hello, Malcolm. Just taking
a little stroll, so I thought I might drop up and see--see how you're
making out." He glanced about him, obviously impressed. "Not so bad,"
he said. "Not bad at all! That's the cave, I suppose? See you have
things pretty well straightened out. What's that?"

Greg's gaze followed his nod to the crosswork which was suspended
directly above the cave-mouth; a latticework of steel, firmly
wire-lashed, secured by a rope, the stretch of which dipped into the
cave itself.

"Barrier-shield," explained Greg. "Hangs on a pulley. We can drop it
from inside. In case of attack, you see. Slides down that groove into
the channel cut in the ground, holds tight there." He grunted. "That's
one of the reasons we don't have any honest-to-John furniture in our
home. We had too many other important uses for the metal."

"Clever," said Andrews. "Ingenious. I--er--got to thinking over what
you said this morning, Malcolm, after you left. You were right. For a
group of civilized people we let ourselves get into sorry shape."

He rubbed his chin reflectively. Greg noticed for the first time that
his face was no longer dark with beard; that though his clothes were
still dirty, he had made an effort to straighten them, dust them. The
skin of his face, though, was pink and sore; chafed.

Greg said, "What in the world did you shave with, Bert? A cross-cut
saw?"

Andrews said defensively, "The electric razor won't work. The dry-cells
are exhausted, and we can't use D. C. without wasting fuel. There
wasn't a honed blade aboard the skiff. I used my pocket-knife. It--" he
confessed ruefully, "It wasn't very sharp."

Greg said, "Hannigan mounted carborundum sheets on a lathe wheel and
put edges on a couple steak knives for us. I'll let you have one before
you go back. Hey, there he is now! What's the story, Sparks?"

Hannigan came into the clearing at a trot. He was excited. He said,
"Sweet Christmas cow, Greg, you know what I run across? A--What's this?
Company?"

The eager, interested look fled from Bert Andrews' eyes. He said
stiffly, "I--I guess I'll be running along now, Malcolm. See you again."

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned, his shoulders very stiff. Too stiff to be convincing. Greg
glanced at him appraisingly, motioned the radioman to keep his mouth
shut, called after the young Andrews.

"Don't go yet, Bert. We're just getting ready for dinner."

"Dinner?" The young man spun like a top. Then he recalled his dignity.
"Oh--dinner! Why, I guess ours is almost ready, too. 'Bye--"

"We'd be glad to have you stay," said Greg levelly, striving to keep
the amusement out of his voice. "I think there's a roast tonight.
Something that looks like a young suckling pig, can't exactly tell,
though, till we taste it. These Titanian animals are different. Then
there's a salad and potatoes and beans, a fruit compote, and I think
'Tina baked a pie today."

Andrew's eyes widened as his lips twitched. "I--I wouldn't want to be
any trouble," he said faintly.

"No trouble at all," said Greg. Then, unable longer to restrain
himself, "But of course if you think they'll be expecting you--?"

"No, I'll stay!" blurted Andrews hastily. "Thanks. I can wash up
somewhere?"

"Inside. Ask Aunt Maud for soap. She's the custodian of that." Then,
as the young man disappeared into the cave hurriedly, Greg grinned at
Hannigan. "One!" he said.

"You want to hear about what I seen?" demanded the redhead. "Listen, it
was terrific! Great big marsh, full of the damnedest life-forms and
craziest vegetation anybody ever met up with. Hot, too! Steamy, like
the Grand Marshes of Venus, only not quite as stinking--"

He stopped, annoyed. "One what? You ain't listening to a word I'm
saying. Don't you want to hear?"

"Later, Sparks," said Greg. "Right now I'm wondering how long it will
take the others to fall in line."

       *       *       *       *       *

It didn't take long. The citadel of stubbornness had been undermined
the night of the attack, it toppled with Bert Andrews' "friendly
visit"--from which, some time later, he staggered home glassy-eyed with
an overdose of wild roast, hot vegetables, crisp greens and luscious
fruits, succulent berry pie--and it crashed, violently, the next day.

Bert Andrews brought his dad up the hill, presumably to confer with
Malcolm on a future mutual defensive system; the two of them lingered
for lunch--and after lunch old J. Foster, with the blunt directness
which accounted for his success in Earth's business world, sat back,
grunted comfortably, and said, "That's the first meal I've enjoyed
since I was a pup in Service! Malcolm, you win! I'm sick and tired of
this squabbling, and of our hand-to-mouth existence down there. Is
there room for me in this cave of yours?"

It was no moment for gloating triumph. Greg said, "Yes, sir."

"Then I'm moving in. And so is my wife. What do you want me to do?"

Greg said, "Hannigan and I were planning to break ground for a small
farm this afternoon, but this is more important. We'll go down with you
and help you move up your personal things. How about--" he hesitated
briefly "--how about Crystal? And Breadon?"

"I don't know," said J. Foster unhappily. "But if they're smart,
they'll quit kicking against the pricks, too."

They were smart. When Andrews and his son, accompanied by Hannigan,
Tommy and Greg, appeared at the skiff to move the Andrews' property,
when Andrews told them bluntly that he and Enid and Bert were casting
their lot in with the cave-dwellers, there was a moment of sultry
silence, fraught with reluctance, anger, recrimination--then Breadon
bowed to the inevitable. Not with good grace, but with grudging
agreement he said, "Very well. If that's the way you want it, Mr.
Andrews. If we're welcome up there, Malcolm--?"

Greg said, "You are welcome, Breadon. I told you that a week ago."
And promptly forgot Breadon and Breadon's surliness as he realized
that Crystal, too, had been shamed into a recollection of her feminine
duty to herself. Somewhere she had found cosmetics, and somehow she
had managed to clean and press out a fawn-colored desert sun-suit.
Once again, ash-blonde hair combed back to a shoulder-length veil of
shimmering loveliness, pale golden skin fresh and creamy and fragrant
beneath the sheer silk of her abbreviated costume, she was the
glamorous, crystal-lovely Crystal of more leisured days. A woman at
once lovely, challenging and--desirable.

Thus the nation divided against itself was united. And thus began the
second phase of the refugees' struggle to exist against staggering odds
on the lonely, hostile moon of Saturn.


                                 VIII

Amazingly, the period of readjustment was not long, nor was it arduous.
It was accomplished briefly, surely, in a series of emphatic object
lessons. There was Enid Andrews, for instance. On her first afternoon
in the cave she called 'Tina to her side, ordered the beautification of
her face, her hair, her nails, and with a sigh of relief surrendered to
the ministrations of the younger girl.

Greg, witness to this, frowned. But he motioned for silence when Aunt
Maud would have made some irate comment.

That evening, by former agreement, Enid washed the dinner dishes. When
'Tina stepped forward to dry them, Greg stopped her.

"Sit down, 'Tina. Mrs. Andrews will dry them."

Enid started, gasped, stared at the huge pile appalled. 'Tina said,
"But there are so many of them, Greg. Ten of us--"

"You have done extra work today," said Greg suavely, "to earn your
rest. Mrs. Andrews is in your debt. She must work out her obligation.
We have," he continued pointedly, "no servants or masters here.
Courtesies must be repaid in kind."

Only twice more did the lessons have to be repeated; once when Bert
Andrews gluttonously devoured an entire berry pie and was made to spend
the next lunch-hour picking fruit for another; again when Breadon
carelessly fouled the spring by washing in it, and in penance was
required to construct a clay-and-stone dam below the spring, that in
the future the community might have adequate bathing facilities; after
that everyone understood that he had his alloted share of work, that
the work must be done, that meals, warmth, comfort and safety could be
earned only by sweat and toil.

And gradually the rude cave dwelling began to take on the semblance of
a home. During the short days at their disposal before Titan, pursuing
its cosmic rounds, plunged into the umbra of its gigantic mother
planet, every member of the refugee corps worked feverishly to prepare
and fortify for the dark days to come.

It was well that they did so, for when the darkness descended, ensued a
bleakness even more terrifying than Greg had anticipated. The eclipse
of Titan by its parent was no mild, momentary phenomenon like the
eclipsing of Earth by Luna; it was a five day cessation of all heat and
light.

With the darkness came sweeping, icy winds, gales monstrously violent,
and incredible cold. From a sky black and terrible came the snow, five
inches of it in an hour, eight feet of it in a day. It was alarming at
first. Then Greg and all of them realized that the very ferocity of
the storm was their salvation! Were there to be this frightful cold
_without_ snow, not all the fires of Gehenna, not all the clothing and
blankets in the universe, could have protected them. But the snow,
dropping like a sodden, white blanket, choked and filled the mouth of
their cave, piled thicker and thicker, enswaddling them in a fleecy
comfort that kept out the bone-brittling blasts.

Then they thanked the foresight that had led them to build up a
roof-touching fuel reserve, a store of fresh produce and game, for they
could not leave their refuge. They were snowbound until Titan left the
shadow of Saturn and the warmth should again melt their prison walls.

But those days were not days of idleness; they were days of
accomplishment. The women, under 'Tina's guidance, ripped apart
unneeded goods salvaged from the skiff's stores--tarpaulins, extra
bedding and napery, carpeting, drapes--and restitched them into more
needed, more practical articles of wearing and household apparel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Breadon and Greg, laying aside a mutely-acknowledged hostility,
pooled their knowledge and ingenuity in an effort to ascertain their
whereabouts on the satellite. Neither had studied mathematics closely,
a fact each now bewailed. But they had a few books on astrogation,
taken from the skiff, and they had determination and intelligence.
Utilizing some of their precious, dwindling store of forged metal, they
constructed a crude but--they believed--reasonably accurate sextant
with which, when the darkness was gone, they hoped to take celestial
readings that would aid their computations.

In the making of this, Greg was forced to sacrifice something that
had been for almost ten years as much a part of him as his arms and
legs. His spectacles. Strangely, he did not miss them much after the
first day. Their purpose had been mainly to protect him from eyestrain
and headaches in a confined vocation that required much reading. But
here on Saturn's satellite, health improved by hard labor, Greg had
experienced no headaches. He was, in fact, almost disgustingly healthy.
He could tell by the straining of his clothes at throat and chest and
waist-band that he was gaining weight; his appetite had improved and
when night came, he did not have to read himself to sleep.

Young Tommy took upon himself the task of chronicling their exile.
His method, though extravagantly romantic as befitted his years
and enthusiasm for this adventure, was nonetheless efficient. He
laboriously scraped smooth a wide portion of the cave-wall; on this
he inscribed a calendar, a log, and a map of such portions of the
satellite as they had so far explored.

Meanwhile Sparks Hannigan fretted over his damaged radio set. An
accomplished bug-pounder, he took little time to get the wiring
rearranged. The replacement of metal parts was a tougher problem, but
it, too, he solved with the aid of their acetylene torch.

One final job, however, stopped him cold. He shook his head when he
spoke of it to Malcolm.

"The tubes, Greg. It just ain't no use. We can't operate the radio
less'n we got tubes, and ours is gone. I guess I'm just wasting my
time."

Greg said, "Isn't there a type of radio that works without tubes?
Operates on a crystal, or something?"

Sparks said, "Yeah. But it ain't got no power. We got to get a message
plumb off the satellite, out into space where it can be picked up by a
Space Patrol cruiser. Or the Saturn lightship."

"And that's impossible? Suppose you had glass?"

"Can you make it?" scoffed Sparks.

"Maybe," said Greg. "Glass was accidentally discovered in the first
place, you know, by Phoenician sailors who built a fire on a sandy
beach wherein was imbedded raw chunks of natron. We might be able to do
the same."

Sparks shook his head glumly. "O.Q. So that gives us glass. We still
got to blow it, and figger out some way of sucking the air out, and
winding filaments. Oh, understand, I ain't saying we can't _do_ it,
Greg. But it'll take years."

Greg nodded soberly.

"Well, we'll overlook no bets. Sparks--tell you what to do. You go
ahead and build one of those simple 'crystal' sets, just in the event
that someday a scout ship or exploration plane should come within our
range. Andrews is an important man, you know. Earth won't dismiss him
casually as 'Lost in Space.' We'll also, as soon as the Sun comes back,
clear a wide swath in the plain below us and construct a huge SOS sign
of wood and underbrush that will be visible by day and can be set afire
by night.

"Then, if we should ever hear the signal of a scout ship, we'll hope
they see our marker."

"If!" grunted Sparks.

"What's that?"

"Skip it!" said Hannigan. "I was just making book against myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

So Greg maintained an optimism before the others, an optimism he did
not entirely feel himself. Always he talked of the day they would leave
Titan, but sometimes he wondered if that day would ever come.

And truth to tell, there were periods when he almost hoped that day
would not ever come! For here, a thousand million miles from the Earth
that had borne him, Gregory Malcolm had finally come into the rulership
that, on Earth, he could never win, but that here was his by right of
greater strength and knowledge.

He gazed about him, musing, and saw a cavern bright with candles that
_he_ had taught the womenfolk to render from the fats of wild beasts,
warm with a flame _he_ had kindled and nurtured, comfortable with
furnishings _he_ had constructed to their purpose. He saw nine men and
women, a half dozen of whom had been his "superiors" aforetime, but who
now looked to him for guidance, protection and leadership.

His mind's eye pierced the rock walls of the cavern and gazed,
marveling, at the cosmos as viewed from desolate Titan. When these
snows melted he could stand upon the hillside beneath the flaming
moons of Saturn, beneath the never-ending wonder of Saturn's massive,
multi-colored Rings, and say with Defoe's ancient castaway that here
he, indeed, was monarch of all he surveyed.

This was his ordained fate; this was his brave, new world; these people
were his subjects. And he was, for howsoever brief or long a time, an
Emperor. And the white, the whirling stars--these were his empire!

Perhaps he was not the only one of that group who saw this truth. For
there was more than mere grudging lip-service in the changed attitude
of Andrews and his wife and son. Bert Andrews was a changed boy. His
wilfulness had vanished; his allegiance to Greg was ardent. Maud
Andrews' affection for Greg was an obvious thing. She saw to it that he
was first fed, first clothed, first taken care of in all things; hers
was an attitude of fierce maternalism, springing from a breast that had
never known motherhood.

And--and there was another strange thing, too. A thing of singing
glory that Greg could scarce believe, even though its truth was
exhibited to him in a thousand little ways.

Crystal Andrews!

A great change had come upon Crystal Andrews since the loss of the
_Carefree_. Of the old Crystal, only one part remained. Her blindingly
radiant beauty. Her selfishness, her coldness, had fled, had been
banished as her accustomed languidness had been banished by the
obligation of labor.

Daily her attitude toward Greg grew more intimate. From aloofness she
melted into acceptance, acceptance faded and became approval. Approval
waxed as transpiring events proved time and again Greg's wisdom and his
right to rule; there came upon the girl an eagerness to be the first to
do whatever he suggested.

This was good, and as it should be. But there was something else, too;
something deeper. At first Greg could not understand it, then gradually
its meaning became clear even to his wholly-masculine mind. The sudden
glance ... the lingering touch of hand against hand as they chanced
to pass one another ... the host of unnecessary little questions that
brought them into contact a dozen times a day ... the sweeping flush
when he, looking up unexpectedly, met her gaze. All these and other
things. The lithe, sure, free, but overwhelmingly feminine allure of
her body, shoulder brushing his as they sat before the fireplace in the
long evenings. The slow caress of her voice when she spoke his name.
The moment of swift alarm--a torpid snake that had somehow wriggled
into the cavern, toward the warmth of the fire--and Crystal in his
arms for all too short a moment. And drawing away reluctantly when the
"danger" was past.

       *       *       *       *       *

He should have known from these things. Or from the amused glances of
Sparks Hannigan, or the increased surliness of Ralph Breadon, or from
the sudden loss of gaiety on the part of 'Tina.

"What's the matter with you, 'Tina? Don't you feel well lately?"

Her eyes avoiding his. "I'm all right, Greg. It's nothing."

"But you don't sing any more. You're sure you're well? There's nothing
I can do for you?"

"No." Her voice low. "No, thank you."

"But I want you to be happy. Look, 'Tina--let's you and me play
cribbage tonight like we used to? We haven't had a game for weeks. How
about it?"

"Oh, Greg--would you like to? Really?"

Her dullness slipping away from her like a dropped cape; her voice
throbbingly eager. Then another voice at his elbow, a throaty,
heart-stirring voice. "Oh, Greg--me, too? May I play? Will you teach me
the game?"

Greg turned, smiling. "Why, of course. We'll get Sparks and make it a
four-handed game. Eh, 'Tina?"

But 'Tina drew back, her eyes hurt again and distant. Her voice faint.
"N-no, Greg. You and Crystal. I don't think I want to...."

Which Greg could not understand. But gradually, out of his confusion
and miscomprehension, one truth came clear. And with its coming there
was a sudden singing in his heart, a fire in his veins. He loved
Crystal Andrews. And Crystal Andrews loved him!

       *       *       *       *       *

Then one day they woke to find the floor of the cave glistening darkly
with a pool of water. The snow was melting from the mouth of the cave.
When they attacked the weakened snowbank with shovels and brooms,
laughing and fighting their way clear of the white barrier, they
discovered that the dark days had ended, that once again the sky of
Titan was silver-blue and bright, that already the warmth had turned
the snow mantle to chuckling rivulets that ran merrily down the hills,
leaving fresh green in its wake. The miracle of Titan's "winter" had
passed, and the land would again be theirs for three warm weeks.

Greg's brain was afire with a hundred projects. A viaduct to carry
water into the cavern during the next cold period. They had had to
depend on melted snow this time. A study of the stars with their new
sextant. The clearing of ground for the gigantic signal. He turned to
the others enthusiastically.

"We've got to work now, folks, as we never worked before! Tommy, I
want you to get right to work on that new viaduct we were talking
about. Andrews, your first job will be to replenish the wood supply.
Try the west woods, that's the best timber. 'Tina, see what these short
'winters' do to the vegetation, will you? I don't imagine they're dead.
Nature has ways of counteracting its own excesses. I believe we'll find
the vegetation here on Titan is phenomenally hardy. But see, anyway.

"Aunt Maud--you and Enid set out those traps we made during the dark
spell. We'll have a hot stew tonight. Breadon, suppose you and Sparks
and I go down to the plain and start planning our signal system?
Crystal--"

Crystal was at his side, her hand on his arm. "I'm going with you,
Greg."

"What? But they need you--Oh, all right!"

He smiled. Behind him Aunt Maud snorted and disguised the snort with
a rattling cough. 'Tina looked at him oddly for a moment before she
turned obediently toward where last week there had been a vegetable
patch. Her eyes were hurt. Greg could not understand why.

It was not until he was halfway down the hill that he remembered he
had promised to let her help with the sign project. Of course it was
too late to do anything about it then. Besides, Crystal's feet were
unsteady on the melting path. She needed his arm about her for support.
And her hair had a tantalizing fragrance all its own....


                                  IX

It took all of the men, working steadily from dawn to dusk every day,
two full weeks to construct the signal. When it was done, Greg looking
down upon it from their hilltop eyrie, gazed upon it with approval and
found it good.

Across the mile-wide flatness of the plain they had heaped huge piles
of branches, faggots, brush, forming the letters "S O S." Green, they
stood out boldly; withered and faded, their brownness would be equally
clear.

Hannigan was pleased with his share of the work, too.

"--wire," he finished, "from the bottom of the 'S' to the cave. We just
about had enough, too. Anyhow, if the ship should happen to come at
night instead of in the daytime, all we got to do is push the switch,
and a spark'll jump in the tinder. Send the whole signal up in flame in
less time than you can say 'integral calculus.'" He frowned. "If," he
added, "a ship comes at all. Which of course I couldn't say yes or no."

"It will come," said Greg absently. He said it because it was the thing
to say; as a matter of habit. He was not even thinking of his words.
He was thinking, now that this project had been accomplished, of other
things. Of a silo that must be built. They had nine head of livestock
now, due to Tommy O'Doul's persistence. The beasts would have to be
provided with winter quarters. One goat in the cave had not been so
bad, last month. But nine goats--Perhaps, he thought, that small cave
next to ours. If we could dig into it through the west wall ... make a
small opening....

His lack of concentration brought a false conclusion from the third man
in the group. Ralph Breadon stirred restively.

"You should say," he insinuated, "if Malcolm _wants_ a ship to come!"

The words penetrated Greg's thoughts of the future slowly. He turned a
blank, questioning look on the other.

"Eh?"

"I merely said," repeated Breadon, "that one could not condemn a man in
your position for showing lack of enthusiasm in a rescue party."

Greg stared at him thoughtfully.

"Just what do you mean by that, Breadon?"

Breadon shrugged.

"Isn't it fairly obvious? Two short months ago you were a nobody. A
secretary without background, position or authority. Today you're the
demigod of Titan. Sir Boss. I don't complain; I merely comment. You
have everything a man could ask for. Authority ... security ... a
woman...."

The last jolted Malcolm out of his apathy. He took a swift step
forward, gripped Breadon's lapels with a fist grown heavier, rougher,
with labor.

"If you mean Crystal, Breadon--"

Breadon stood his ground. "Let go of me, Malcolm. I'm not going to
fight you again. Of course I mean Crystal. It's perfectly obvious
that you and she--Oh, hell, man! Don't be a hypocrite! After all, when
people live as intimately as we do, in one little cave...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg felt dark anger welling up within him like a gall-tinctured
flood. Rage not that Breadon should say this thing, but that there
should be cause for his thinking it. He choked, thickly, "Damn you,
Breadon--there's not a thing wrong between Crystal and me. I love her,
yes. And Crystal loves me. We've only been waiting till this big job
was finished--"

"Then if I were you," retorted Breadon wearily, "I wouldn't wait any
longer. Or is it another case of the king being incapable of doing
wrong? Anyhow, I think you understand what I mean now. Two months ago
a marriage between you and Crystal Andrews would have been ridiculous.
Today--"

He shrugged again. Greg glared at him wrathfully, impotently, for a
long moment. Then he spun on his heel, led the way down the hill to
the cave. Sparks scurried along behind him anxiously. "Now, look,
Greg--don't do nothing you might regret--"

"Shut up! I'll handle this!"

At the cave he called all the settlers before him. They came from their
tasks, surprised, wondering. He wasted no time. He broached the subject
boldly.

"Because we ten are marooned here on a desert satellite," he said
savagely, "without a clergyman, there is no reason we must abandon all
the rights and privileges of civilized society. Human emotions have a
habit of enduring. I think it is no secret that Crystal Andrews and I
have fallen in love. I intend, therefore, to marry her as soon as it
can be arranged.

"Crystal--" He turned to the girl. "Do I speak for you as well as for
myself?"

The girl nodded and stepped forward into the circle of his arm. "You
know you do, Greg."

J. Foster Andrews looked pleased. He said, "That's fine, son. But who's
going to do the marrying?"

"You are. As owner of the _Carefree_, you were also its commander. I
think the space code would permit your acting in capacity of justice."
Greg's anger melted. "I'm not being very formal about this, sir.
Perhaps I should ask for your permission."

"You have it, my boy! And now--" Archly. "When will
the--hrrumph!--happy event take place?"

Greg looked at Crystal questioningly. "Next week?" she said, "I'll have
to have a little time, Greg."

"That's it, then," said Greg. "Next week. When the dark period comes."

       *       *       *       *       *

The little group broke up, then. One by one they murmured words of
congratulation and approval to their leader and his bride-to-be and
drifted away. Finally Crystal went back into the cave, and Greg was
left alone with 'Tina, who alone of all the group, had so far said
nothing. He went to her.

"You haven't told me you're happy, 'Tina."

She turned slowly.

"Shall I say so, Greg?"

"I want you to. Why do you act so strangely toward me, 'Tina? Do you
dislike me? You used to--"

"I'm happy," she cried suddenly. "Now I've said it. You want me to.
Are you satisfied? Why don't you let me alone, Greg? Must I like or
dislike you? You have one woman? Must you--" She broke from his side,
raced forward to the edge of the hill, stared blindly down into the
plain. Greg moved after her, worried. "What is it, 'Tina? You're _not_
happy! Are you lonely? Why don't you get married, too? Sparks ... or
Breadon...."

He stopped, his gaze over her shoulder settling on something in the
valley beneath. A thing incredible to behold, but that was ... yes,
_was_....

"'Tina!" he gasped.

At the tone of his voice she spun swiftly, anxiously. "What is it,
Greg?"

"Look! Down there! A--a human!"


                                   X

"More gruel, Marberry?" asked Aunt Maud solicitously. "Can you eat
another spoonful?" She glared at those who ringed the reclining
spaceman belligerently. "Why don't you let him alone?" she demanded.
"Greg Malcolm, I thought you had better sense! The man's weak and
sick!"

Marberry's eyes were like charred pockets, but he summoned a weak smile.

"I'm all right," he said. "There isn't much more to tell. We managed
to cut free from the _Carefree_ just before she crashed. Four of us.
Lipstead, Hawkins, Craeburn and myself. Our skiff cracked up in a
mountain gorge. Craeburn was killed, and Lipstead broke his leg. But we
fixed it up in splints, and he got by.

"When the snow came--" He shut his eyes momentarily, as though to rid
them of a persistently evil vision. "When the snow came we almost died.
We ran short on fuel, and the skiff leaked. Then the electro-stove ran
down, and we had to eat cold, canned food.

"Even so, we pulled through. But when it got warm again, Hawkins said
we mustn't spend another winter in the skiff. We had to find a cave in
the mountains, he said. So we abandoned the ship and started moving. It
was then that they caught us."

Breadon, who had entered late, asked, "Who?"

"Natives of Titan," Greg capitulated briefly. "He described 'em to
us before you came in. Savages. Cannibals. Humanoid, but no culture.
Funny physical make-up, like the Uranians. Don't feel the cold at all.
Murdering devils. From what he says, we're lucky they haven't found us
before this."

Breadon said, "Cannibals!" and looked sallow. The supine man continued
weakly.

"We had to leave Lipstead behind. He couldn't run. He drew a gun on
us, threatened to kill us all if we didn't leave him. We heard his gun
afterward. He must have got a half dozen of them before--before they
got him.

"Then Hawkins and me split up. It was the only way, he said. One of us
might be lucky. I--I guess I was. They followed him instead of me. And
all the time--" His voice raised feverishly. "And all the time, we was
only about ten miles from here! If we'd only known--"

Aunt Maud would stand for no more. She bustled between the invalid and
his listeners, shooed them away angrily. "Run along, now. This man
needs sleep and quiet. Go 'way!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But later, as Marberry slept the sleep of exhaustion, Greg called a
council of war.

"Ten miles," he said soberly. "If those creatures are only ten miles
from here, we can expect an attack almost any day. Or moment. From
now on, we must keep a watch at all times. No one must leave the cave
alone."

Hannigan said, "You reckon they'll find us, Greg? Titan's a big hunk of
dirt."

"They're savages. Savages can follow the faintest trails of wild
animals, let alone the spoor of a frightened, sick man. They'll be
here."

Hannigan said, "There's one good hunk of news in the whole sorry mess.
Marberry said him and his companions sent out radio SOS calls for three
solid weeks. Till their radio run dry. Maybe somebody picked up one of
them calls. Maybe there's help on the way right now."

"Radio. Speaking of radio, Sparks, how about that crystal receiving set
you were working on? Is it finished?"

Sparks smiled sourly.

"Finished your sainted sandals! It's all washed up. Listen to this!"

He stepped to the hodge-podge of wires and coils on which he had been
laboring, adjusted it. From its diaphragm came dismal sounds. Squawks,
squeals, quavering vibrations.

"Static," said Breadon.

"Double it," gloomed Hannigan, "and add a thousand. The worst kind of
static. An electrical disturbance field."

Greg frowned. "But that can't be, Sparks. There's no electricity around
here. No generating plants or--"

"It can't be," snorted Sparks, "but it is. I don't know what makes it
act thataway. Maybe it's the H-layer of this cockeyed satellite. Sun
spots, maybe. Whatever it is, it sure gums up my machine." He stared at
the tiny set helplessly.

Greg stirred himself.

"Well, then we'll have to look forward to fighting this battle without
hope of assistance. Andrews, I want you and Tommy to inspect the
cave-mouth barrier immediately, see that it's in perfect shape and
reinforce it. Ralph, you and Sparks drive the livestock into the small
cave so they'll be hidden. 'Tina, the fuel reserve?"

"Complete, Greg."

"Good! I'm going out to stand the first watch. If you need me, I'll
be--"

At that moment a small figure, bristle-haired with excitement, came
scampering into the cave.

"Greg!" cried Tommy O'Doul. "Greg--they're down there! On the plain. I
seen them. And I--I think they seen me, too! They're heading up this
way!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A half hour later, Greg, flanked by a tight-jawed little band of
compatriots, crouched in the bottle-mouth of an altered cavern.

The short time that had elapsed since Tommy O'Doul gave the alarm had
been minutes of swift preparation. What little of water, food and
supplies could be brought into the cave had been hustled in by eager
hands. The stock had been herded into the small, adjoining cave, and
boulders had been rolled against the cave mouth. The metal grill had
been dropped before the mouth of their own cave; it was behind this
they now crouched, through this that Greg looked out upon a lead-gray
sky and green hills.

"There's one thing," said Greg. "One break in our favor. It's starting
to get darker, and it's barely afternoon. We must be dipping into the
penumbra of Saturn. In a little while the darkness should come, and the
gales and the cold."

Hannigan said, "That ain't no break for us. Marberry said they didn't
feel heat and cold."

"I know. But they can't prevent the snow falling. If it comes down like
it did during the last dark spell, we will have an eight-foot fall of
ice between us and our attackers."

Andrews looked at the sky anxiously.

"But until it snows, Greg?"

"We fight!" said Greg grimly.

Bert Andrews, who had wriggled forward on his belly to the furthermost
ell of the bottle-neck, ducked back hastily, twisted his head over his
shoulder.

"Then we fight now!" he rasped. "Here they come!"

It was then that the Earth-exiles saw, for the first time, the dominant
race of Saturn's sixth satellite. To see was to marvel that Nature had
once again--as on Earth, Mars, Uranus and Io--selected the bipedal
humanoid form in creating a ruling race. Except for the thick, downy
pelts that covered these Titanians' bodies, the low, slanting, bestial
foreheads, the depth of breast and rapacious mouth slits, these
creatures were the counterparts of man.

But there were other unapparent differences, thought Greg. Marberry
had reported the Titanians impervious to heat and cold, which argued a
difference in normal body temperature and perhaps a difference in basic
metabolism. There must be sharp differences between man's mentality
and that of these man-like beasts, as well, else they would not come
seeking their interplanetary guests as the huntsman seeks his quarry.

A long, questing, silver-pelted line, they climbed the hillside path
to the flat clearing before the cave. They paused there, peering about
them suspiciously, nostrils wide and eyes searching. Greg realized,
suddenly, that these man-things were far down humanity's scale; so much
of the animal was in them that they placed more dependence in their
olfactory than in their visual sense. They seemed to catch the man
scent, the spoor they had been following. Their leader moved forward to
the grillwork. Hannigan's shoulder brushed that of Greg as he wriggled
forward.

"Now, Greg? Shall we let 'em have it?"

Greg whispered hurriedly, "When I give the word, all fire at once.
Remember, we have very little ammunition. We must make every shot
count. Ready?"

He glanced at his all-too-tiny fighting crew. Bert Andrews, old J.
Foster, Breadon, Sparks, himself. "Tommy," he ordered, "go back into
the cave!"

"Aw!" said Tommy--but obeyed. Greg glanced about him once more. Others
of the Titanians had slunk to their leader's side now. Their voices,
guttural and mono-syllabic, carried plainly over the few intervening
yards.

"Now!" cried Greg.

       *       *       *       *       *

Five rifles spoke as one. Their conjoined thunder beat deafeningly upon
the sweating cavern walls, echoed and re-echoed, ripping at Greg's
eardrums. But another sound pierced the roar of gunfire. The shrill,
pain-laden screams of stricken man-things. The inquisitive leader fell
without ever knowing the cause of his death. A Titanian behind him
opened his slit-mouth in a flat, high scream, turned to run, tearing
at his gaping chest with claws that crimsoned as he tore. He took
three steps, toppled, crashed. Another body was beneath his own; still
another fell upon his.

Old J. Foster's lips were white. He turned to Greg, sickened and
trembling.

"We can't do this, Greg! It's slaughter!"

A weak voice cackled derision. "Don't feel sorry for 'em. If they get
in here, they'll show you what a real slaughter looks like. Malcolm,
have you got a gun for me?"

It was the sailor, Marberry. Greg said, "Go back and rest a while
longer, Marberry. We have no more guns."

"I'll get Tommy's."

"Rest. This siege may last all day, all night or for a week. You'll get
your turn."

Marberry disappeared. Greg said, "Fire! Keep on firing! They're
bewildered. Maybe they'll break and run."

Again the salvo of gunfire rocked the corridor, and again foremost
figures slumped to the ground, slicing the ranks of the attackers. But
now, peering through the grill, Greg saw that he had underestimated the
manpower of the attackers. They were not a dozen or two dozen ... there
were a hundred of them milling, now, in the small clearing, and the
path was still clogged with the silvery bodies of others lumbering to
the attack.

What happened in the next hour was such stuff as nightmares are made
of. At first Greg cautioned himself each time he pulled the trigger of
his rifle that he must make his shot count; later he fell into a dull,
scarce-comprehending state of mono-existence wherein he was conscious
only of the nerveless and repeated movements of his hands.
Aim ... load ... fire! Aim again ... load ... fire ... aim....

And at first there was little need for aiming. For the Titanians,
savagely prodigal of life, knew only one way of fighting--to press
forward in brute force, attempting to crush down the metal grill that
stood between them and their vengeance. To fire into that thick press
of bodies was sure havoc. The Titanians were weaponless save for the
cudgels they whirled about their heads threateningly; nor could they
break down the barrier so long as the succeeding hands of all who
gripped it became the limp, impotent hands of the dead.

Then at last even their dim, animal intelligence saw that this was a
losing battle. A cry rose and was shuttled from mouth to mouth. The
silvery figures, now gray in ever-gathering dusk, wisped away from the
cave-mouth.

"Licked 'em!" cried Hannigan. "They're running, by Peter! Golly, Greg!
Look at that pile out there!"

There was awe in his voice, distaste in Greg's eyes as he looked on
the motionless mound heaped before the cave. But Greg said, "Don't get
rash! They may be planning a new attack. Breadon--what's wrong with
you, man?"

Ralph Breadon grinned wryly.

"Fortune's favored child, that's me! They didn't have any weapons to
shoot me with, so I shot myself. Bounced a bullet off the grill. It
came back and pinked my arm."

"Go get it dressed. There it comes!" cried Greg.

"The new attack?" Sparks whirled.

"The darkness. And the snow!"

He was right. The threatened period of darkness had descended at last.
Once again Titan was within the shadow of its primary. And once again
the vast winds were keening from the hilltops, the great flakes of snow
were tumbling from a lifeless sky. Greg's voice was exultant.

"Now we're safe! In an hour or so we'll be behind a fortress of ice.
And I don't think they'll lay siege to us in a blizzard for a solid
week."

His triumph was short-lived. For even as he anticipated victory,
disaster beat on the portals of their refuge. From the depths of the
cave came a shrill scream, the shout of Marberry, and Tommy's frantic
cry--

"Greg! Come a-running! They've found the back entrance!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The back entrance! Greg's heart lurched. He cursed himself, suddenly,
for having tried to accomplish too much in making their cavern
habitable. For by so doing, he had rendered them vulnerable in a spot
where there would be no barrier of ice an hour hence.

The back entrance. The archway they had broken out between their large
cave and the smaller one wherein Tommy's livestock was herded. Somehow
the Titanians had found the other cave, rolled away the boulders, and
were now attempting to get at their quarry from the rear.

Greg shouted, "Andrews, you stand guard here! One man will be enough.
The rest of you--come on!"

The first of the Titanians was pushing through the cleft just as he
reached the main chamber. There was a look of unholy glee on the
man-like creature's thin lips as he attained the cave. But it died
there, suddenly, frostily. It was not Greg who dropped him. It was
young Tommy, staggering under the recoil of a rifle almost as tall as
himself, firing pointblank, bouncing back to reload manfully, bawling
with youthful glee, "Got him, Greg!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Then there was no time for speech, because the Titanians were pouring
through the breech in a howling, flame-eyed mob. For a moment Greg,
even as he fought, felt despair touch his heart with leaden fingers.
There was no grill here to bar the enemy's passage; the cleft was wide
enough to admit three at a time. He and his companions were outnumbered
ten, twenty to one.

But he did not, could not, take into consideration two vital facts.
The first was the indomitable gallantry of his fellow exiles. He had
expected that, in defense of their lives, their possessions, their
women, the armed men would fight to the last breath. And they did.
Pressing forward on relentless feet. Breadon, Andrews, Bert, Hannigan.
But Greg had not realized that the women, too, could fight. As in
a smoke-veiled dream he caught glimpses of their activities. Aunt
Maud and 'Tina, armed with huge ladles, dipping their weapons into
a massive pot of boiling water, flinging the scalding liquid at the
cold-impervious but heat-sensitive invaders. Crystal, no longer a
serene and radiant beauty, but a flaming Valkyr whose ash-blonde hair
tumbled about her, forgotten, gaining a vantage point at the very lip
of the opening, slashing ferociously at the attackers with a monstrous
cleaver. Enid Andrews racing to the wall, digging in Greg's duffle,
pressing something into his hands.

"Your flame-pistol, Gregory!"

Greg grasped it eagerly. "Stand back, Crystal!"

She turned, and saw, and fled. And the ochre flame mushroomed into the
heart of the still-charging Titanians. Their charge stilled, faltered,
wavered, died. The stench of charred bodies was nauseous. Then there
were screams of fear--and the Titanians were in rout!

Into the small cave they pursued them; from it but a handfull of the
silver-pelted savages escaped. And when the last living invader had
disappeared, Greg turned to his exhausted followers with a smile of
weary triumph.

"We'll see no more of them," he promised. "Already the snow is a foot
deep. By morning both caves will be completely walled in. And I think
we've taught them to fear us. What, 'Tina?"

For she was standing before him; her eyes were cool and positive ...
there was decision in her tone.

"I thought it was all over for us a moment ago," she said. "And I knew,
then, Greg, that it was a mistake for me to die without having told
you. I promised myself that if a miracle occurred ... and we should
live ... I would tell you."

He said wonderingly, "But what, 'Tina? I don't--"

"I know you don't, Greg. That is why I must say it. I love you. Have
loved you since that first day." Her eyes were grave. Greg's were
embarrassed.

He said, "But you--you shouldn't say such things, 'Tina. Crystal--"

"She is a brave woman, Greg. But she is not your woman. She is his."

His gaze followed 'Tina's across the room, to where Crystal knelt
beside the injured Breadon. She was cleansing his wound, which was as
it should be. But there was a softness, a tenderness, to her
motions ... and a look in her eyes. Greg looked away, suddenly aware
that even from the beginning he had felt this barrier between them.
Perhaps Crystal had loved him, for a while and in a fashion. But she
loved him for his strength, his power, his ability to rule. She was a
woman of the ruling class; ever her conscious trend would be toward
allegiance with those who led. But in the show-down ... when instinct
overcame logic....

Hannigan cried across the chamber, "What, Greg?"

"I didn't say anything," said Greg gruffly.

"But you did. I heard you say--_Omigawd!_" Sparks made a sudden leap
toward the bench on which rested the forgotten crystal set. "It's this!
_Listen!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

Static still boiled through the speaker of the tiny set. But now, above
the static, riding its vibrations, was superimposed the sound of a
human voice. And the voice was calling, over and over again,

"_Space Patrol Cruiser Orestes ... calling survivors of the Carefree.
We are looking for you. Where are you ... where are you? Come
in, Carefree survivors. Space Patrol Cruiser Orestes ... calling
survivors_...."

Greg looked at 'Tina. Then once again at Crystal, whose face, upturned
with sudden, speechless joy, was the radiant vision of unattainable
perfection. Then at Sparks, whose gaze met his reluctantly. He said,
"Sparks--press the plunger."

Hannigan's hand moved slowly toward the control that would set into
flame the gigantic brush-signal on the plain below. With strange
reluctance, everything considered. For certainly Sparks realized
as plainly as he, Greg, that the snow was falling with increasing
rapidity, that the cruiser must be almost directly overhead for its
signal to penetrate the raucous interference of static, that if this
opportunity were lost it might be years and years before....

Sparks voice was low in his ears.

"Are you sure, Greg?"

And suddenly there was deathly silence in the cave. Never until that
moment had Gregory Malcolm realized how completely was he the ruler of
this tiny clan. Here, where all life and the future of life and the
future of these men and women were concerned, the last great judgment
was relegated to him.

He looked about him uncertainly. And what he read in his comrades' eyes
surprised him. For there was reluctance in the eyes of Bert Andrews ...
a vague regret in those of old J. Foster Andrews ... hope and pleading
in those of the girl 'Tina ... frank disapproval in those of the woman
they knew as 'Aunt Maud.' Only the eyes of Crystal Andrews, who were
he to let the cruiser pass might be his wife, was there mirrored fear
and apprehension....

He shook himself. And with that small gesture he shrugged from his
shoulders an ermine that had lain there all too briefly. Quietly he
said the words that stripped him of his sceptre, that swept away his
empire of the stars.

"Press it, Sparks!" he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A remarkably ingenious device, sir," said Captain Allengrove
approvingly. "And you made use of it in the nick of time. We were just
about to abandon the search when the snowy waste beneath us blossomed
suddenly with that signal. I'm sorry we couldn't get here sooner, sir.
But--" And he glanced about the cavern appreciatively. "But you appear
to have had matters under control."

J. Foster Andrews said, "Well--er--Captain, as a matter of fact, it
wasn't--hrrumph!--altogether my doing. Greg, here--"

Captain Allengrove dismissed Malcolm with a glance.

"Yes, yes, I quite understand. One couldn't expect you to take care of
all the minor details. But I must say, Mr. Andrews, you are a fortunate
man. Inasmuch as you established residence on Titan, the Federation
will be forced to acknowledge your priority claim to the heretofore
unknown ore deposit near your cave."

"The--er--ore deposit?" Andrews looked blank.

Sparks hollered, "Oh, my sainted tonsils! The swamp! Of course!
Pitchblende! That's why there was so much static interference! Radium!"

The cruiser's commander frowned on him.

"Exactly. Of course, Mr. Andrews, you cannot file a full claim to the
property. That requires a full year's residence. And a man as important
as yourself--"

Greg Malcolm started. He had said nothing up till now. He had been
given an opportunity to say nothing. The captain had addressed himself
solely to the one "important" man in their party, the man for whom,
primarily, the search had been made, the man to whose "genius" was
attributed the existence of the castaways.

Now he spoke up. He said, "But _I_ am establishing residence, Captain
Allengrove."

Allengrove permitted himself the luxury of a small smile.

"You, Malcolm? But really, my dear fellow, only a spaceman could
undertake such a task. A _secretary_--"

Aunt Maud waddled forward belligerently. She said, "Secretary--pah!
Fiddle-faddle, Captain! You don't know what you're talking about! And
as for you, Brother Jonathan, I'm ashamed of you! Taking credit for
all this--arragh!" She turned to Greg. "Gregory, I'm an old woman, and
perhaps I'm an old fool, as well. But I've had more fun and excitement
in the past month than I've had in the previous forty years. Be--be
_damned_ if I'll go back to Earth and piddle away my remaining years at
operas and pink teas. I'm staying here with you!"

Enid Andrews, into whose shoulders had so quickly come the grace and
ease of authority that was her charm, looked shocked. "Maud!" she
exclaimed.

Sparks Hannigan breathed a sigh of relief. "Then that makes three of
us," he said. "Any more takers?"

Tommy O'Doul pushed his way to Greg's side. "Can I stay, too, Greg? Can
I, huh? Me, too?"

Greg said gratefully, "If you want to, Tommy. But, Bert--_you_?"

       *       *       *       *       *

For Bert Andrews had also aligned himself with his aunt and Sparks. Now
he said defiantly, "What Aunt Maud says is good enough for me. I'll
stick!"

'Tina was already beside Greg; her gaze was fiercely loyal. She did not
need to say anything. Captain Allengrove looked stunned. "But really,"
he said, "but really, this is most unusual! I mean, we were sent to
rescue you! I--er--I don't quite see how you expect to survive without
leadership--"

Aunt Maud snorted belligerently. "Leadership! You just leave us
supplies and we'll have all the leadership we need! Marberry, you're
staying, aren't you? Well, that's seven of us. A lucky number! I don't
suppose there are any more?"

She glared at Crystal. Greg, too, was watching the girl. Now before the
steadfastness of their combined gazes, her eyes dropped. Her cheeks
colored faintly. But she did not move from Breadon's side. She said,
"I--I'm sorry. I hope you understand, Greg."

Greg said, "I understand."

"Furthermore," declared Aunt Maud staunchly, "I'm warning you,
Jonathan! I know you! If you go home bragging about your part in the
colonization of Titan, I'll follow you, so help me! And if you fail to
keep us equipped with supplies--"

J. Foster said hurriedly, "Now, Maud!"

Captain Allengrove looked at them all uncomprehendingly. It didn't make
sense. But he was a Space Officer--it was not his place to engage in
family quarrels; his duty was to rescue what few of this astonishing
crew wished to be rescued. He coughed nervously. He said, "Well, Mr.
Andrews--if you're ready now?"

"Yes," said J. Foster. "We're ready now. Goodbye, Greg," he said.
"And--er--thanks, old boy!"

Greg said levelly, "That's all right. Goodbye." He said, less levelly,
"Goodbye, Miss Andrews."

But Crystal and Breadon were already turning toward the portal, toward
the cruiser that would carry them back to an easier, gentler world.
So at the end, there were no last farewells. Just a single word, and
silence.

Yet somehow, strangely, Greg Malcolm did not mind too much. For in
losing one thing, he had found much more. He was bulwarked with
greater, truer friends than most men ever know ... he stood in a
cave that was his home ... on a new world that was yet his shining,
unblemished empire.

And there was the touch of a warm hand on his own.





End of Project Gutenberg's Wanderers of the Wolf-Moon, by Nelson S. Bond

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WANDERERS OF THE WOLF-MOON ***

***** This file should be named 63048-8.txt or 63048-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/0/4/63048/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
