The Project Gutenberg EBook of Doctor Universe, by Carl Jacobi

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Doctor Universe

Author: Carl Jacobi

Release Date: September 3, 2020 [EBook #63109]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOCTOR UNIVERSE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            Doctor Universe

                            By CARL JACOBI

               Grannie Annie, who wrote science fiction
            under the nom de plume of Annabella C. Flowers,
                had stumbled onto a murderous plot more
             hair-raising than any she had ever concocted.
             And the danger from the villain of the piece
          didn't worry her--I was the guy he was shooting at.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I was killing an hour in the billiard room of the _Spacemen's Club_
in Swamp City when the Venusian bellboy came and tapped me on the
shoulder.

"Beg pardon, thir," he said with his racial lisp, "thereth thome one to
thee you in the main lounge." His eyes rolled as he added, "A lady!"

A woman here...! The _Spacemen's_ was a sanctuary, a rest club where
in-coming pilots and crewmen could relax before leaving for another
voyage. The rule that no females could pass its portals was strictly
enforced.

I followed the bellhop down the long corridor that led to the main
lounge. At the threshold I jerked to a halt and stared incredulously.

Grannie Annie!

There she stood before a frantically gesticulating desk clerk, leaning
on her faded green umbrella. A little wisp of a woman clad in a
voluminous black dress with one of those doily-like caps on her head,
tied by a ribbon under her chin. Her high-topped button shoes were
planted firmly on the varpla carpet and her wrinkled face was set in
calm defiance.

I barged across the lounge and seized her hand. "Grannie Annie! I
haven't seen you in two years."

"Hi, Billy-boy," she greeted calmly. "Will you please tell this
fish-face to shut up."

The desk clerk went white. "Mithter Trenwith, if thith lady ith a
friend of yourth, you'll have to take her away. It'th abtholutely
againth the ruleth...."

"Okay, okay," I grinned. "Look, we'll go into the grille. There's no
one there at this hour."

In the grille an equally astonished waiter served us--me a lime rickey
and Grannie Annie her usual whisky sour--I waited until she had tossed
the drink off at a gulp before I set off a chain of questions:

"What the devil are you doing on Venus? Don't you know women aren't
allowed in the _Spacemen's_? What happened to the book you were
writing?"

"Hold it, Billy-boy." Laughingly she threw up both hands. "Sure, I knew
this place had some antiquated laws. Pure fiddle-faddle, that's what
they are. Anyway, I've been thrown out of better places."

She hadn't changed. To her publishers and her readers she might be
Annabella C. Flowers, author of a long list of science fiction novels.
But to me she was still Grannie Annie, as old-fashioned as last year's
hat, as modern as an atomic motor. She had probably written more drivel
in the name of science fiction than anyone alive.

But the public loved it. They ate up her stories, and they clamored for
more. Her annual income totaled into six figures, and her publishers
sat back and massaged their digits, watching their earnings mount.

One thing you had to admit about her books. They may have been dime
novels, but they weren't synthetic. If Annabella C. Flowers wrote a
novel, and the locale was the desert of Mars, she packed her carpet bag
and hopped a liner for Craterville. If she cooked up a feud between two
expeditions on Callisto, she went to Callisto.

She was the most completely delightful crackpot I had ever known.

"What happened to _Guns for Ganymede_?" I asked. "That was the title of
your last, wasn't it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Grannie spilled a few shreds of Martian tobacco onto a paper and deftly
rolled herself a cigarette.

"It wasn't _Guns_, it was _Pistols_; and it wasn't _Ganymede_, it was
_Pluto_."

I grinned. "All complete, I'll bet, with threats against the universe
and beautiful Earth heroines dragged in by the hair."

"What else is there in science fiction?" she demanded. "You can't have
your hero fall in love with a bug-eyed monster."

Up on the wall a clock chimed the hour. The old woman jerked to her
feet.

"I almost forgot, Billy-boy. I'm due at the _Satellite_ Theater in ten
minutes. Come on, you're going with me."

Before I realized it, I was following her through the lounge and out to
the jetty front. Grannie Annie hailed a hydrocar. Five minutes later we
drew up before the big doors of the _Satellite_.

They don't go in for style in Swamp City. A theater to the grizzled
colonials on this side of the planet meant a shack on stilts over the
muck, _zilcon_ wood seats and dingy atobide lamps. But the place was
packed with miners, freight-crew-men--all the tide and wash of humanity
that made Swamp City the frontier post it is.

In front was a big sign. It read:

                            ONE NIGHT ONLY
                        DOCTOR UNIVERSE AND HIS
                             NINE GENIUSES
                        THE QUESTION PROGRAM OF
                              THE SYSTEM

As we strode down the aisle a mangy-looking Venusian began to pound a
tinpan piano in the pit. Grannie Annie pushed me into a seat in the
front row.

"Sit here," she said. "I'm sorry about all this rush, but I'm one of
the players in this shindig. As soon as the show is over, we'll go
somewhere and talk." She minced lightly down the aisle, climbed the
stage steps and disappeared in the wings.

"That damned fossilized dynamo," I muttered. "She'll be the death of me
yet."

The piano struck a chord in G, and the curtain went rattling up. On the
stage four Earthmen, two Martians, two Venusians, and one Mercurian
sat on an upraised dais. That is to say, eight of them sat. The
Mercurian, a huge lump of granite-like flesh, sprawled there, palpably
uncomfortable. On the right were nine visi sets, each with its new
improved pantascope panel and switchboard. Before each set stood an
Earthman operator.

       *       *       *       *       *

A tall man, clad in a claw-hammer coat, came out from the wings and
advanced to the footlights.

"People of Swamp City," he said, bowing, "permit me to introduce
myself. I am Doctor Universe, and these are my nine experts."

There was a roar of applause from the _Satellite_ audience. When it had
subsided, the man continued:

"As most of you are familiar with our program, it will be unnecessary
to give any advance explanation. I will only say that on this stage are
nine visi sets, each tuned to one of the nine planets. At transmitting
sets all over these planets listeners will appear and voice questions.
These questions, my nine experts will endeavor to answer. For every
question missed, the sender will receive a check for one thousand
_planetoles_.

"One thing more. As usual we have with us a guest star who will match
her wits with the experts. May I present that renowned writer of
science fiction, Annabella C. Flowers."

From the left wing Grannie Annie appeared. She bowed and took her place
on the dais.

The Doctor's program began. The operator of the Earth visi twisted his
dials and nodded. Blue light flickered on the pantascope panel to
coalesce slowly into the face of a red-haired man. Sharp and dear his
voice echoed through the theater:

"_Who was the first Earthman to titter the sunward side of Mercury?_"

Doctor Universe nodded and turned to Grannie Annie who had raised her
hand. She said quietly:

"Charles Zanner in the year 2012. In a specially constructed
tracto-car."

And so it went. Questions from Mars, from Earth, from Saturn flowed in
the visi sets. Isolated miners on Jupiter, dancers in swank Plutonian
cafes strove to stump the experts. With Doctor Universe offering
bantering side play, the experts gave their answers. When they failed,
or when the Truthicator flashed a red light, he announced the name of
the winner.

It grew a little tiresome after a while and I wondered why Grannie had
brought me here. And then I began to notice things.

The audience in the _Satellite_ seemed to have lost much of its
original fervor. They applauded as before but they did so only at the
signal of Doctor Universe. The spell created by the man was complete.

Pompous and erect, he strode back and forth across the stage like a
general surveying his army. His black eyes gleamed, and his thin lips
were turned in a smile of satisfaction.

When the last question had been answered I joined the exit-moving
crowd. It was outside under the street marquee that a strange incident
occurred.

A yellow-faced Kagor from the upper Martian desert country shuffled by,
dragging his cumbersome third leg behind him. Kagors, of course, had an
unpleasant history of persecution since the early colonization days of
the Red Planet. But the thing that happened there was a throw back to
an earlier era.

Someone shouted, "Yah, yellow-face! Down with all Kagors!" As one
man the crowd took up the cry and surged forward. The helpless Kagor
was seized and flung to the pavement. A knife appeared from nowhere,
snipped the Martian's single lock of hair. A booted foot bludgeoned
into his mouth.

Moments later an official hydrocar roared up and a dozen I.P. men
rushed out and scattered the crowd. But a few stragglers lingered to
shout derisive epithets.

Grannie Annie came out from behind the box office then. She took my arm
and led me around a corner and through a doorway under a sign that read
THE JET. Inside was a deep room with booths along one wall. The place
was all but deserted.

In a booth well toward the rear the old lady surveyed me with sober
eyes.

"Billy-boy, did you see the way that crowd acted?"

I nodded. "As disgraceful an exhibition as I've ever seen. The I.P. men
ought to clamp down."

"The I.P. men aren't strong enough."

She said it quietly, but there was a glitter in her eyes and a harsh
line about her usually smiling lips.

"What do you mean?"

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment the old lady sat there in silence; then she leaned back,
closed her eyes, and I knew there was a story coming.

"My last book, _Death In The Atom_, hit the stands last January,"
she began. "When it was finished I had planned to take a six months'
vacation, but those fool publishers of mine insisted I do a sequel.
Well, I'd used Mars and Pluto and Ganymede as settings for novels, so
for this one I decided on Venus. I went to Venus City, and I spent six
weeks in-country. I got some swell background material, and I met Ezra
Karn...."

"Who?" I interrupted.

"An old prospector who lives out in the deep marsh on the outskirts of
Varsoom country. To make a long story short, I got him talking about
his adventures, and he told me plenty."

The old woman paused. "Did you ever hear of the Green Flames?" she
asked abruptly.

I shook my head. "Some new kind of ..."

"It's not a new kind of anything. The Green Flame is a radio-active
rock once found on Mercury. The _Alpha_ rays of this rock are similar
to radium in that they consist of streams of material particles
projected at high speed. But the character of the _Gamma_ rays has
never been completely analyzed. Like those set up by radium, they are
electromagnetic pulsations, but they are also a strange combination of
_Beta_ or cathode rays with negatively charged electrons.

"When any form of life is exposed to these _Gamma_ rays from the Green
Flame rock, they produce in the creature's brain a certain lassitude
and lack of energy. As the period of exposure increases, this condition
develops into a sense of impotence and a desire for leadership or
guidance. Occasionally, as with the weak-willed, there is a spirit of
intolerance. The Green Flames might be said to be an inorganic opiate,
a thousand times more subtle and more powerful than any known drug."

I was sitting up now, hanging on to the woman's every word.

"Now in 2710, as you'd know if you studied your history, the three
planets of Earth, Venus, and Mars were under governmental bondage. The
cruel dictatorship of Vennox I was short-lived, but it lasted long
enough to endanger all civilized life.

"The archives tell us that one of the first acts of the overthrowing
government was to cast out all Green Flames, two of which Vennox had
ordered must be kept in each household. The effect on the people was
immediate. Representative government, individual enterprise, freedom
followed."

Grannie Annie lit a cigarette and flipped the match to the floor.

"To go back to my first trip to Venus. As I said, I met Ezra Karn, an
old prospector there in the marsh. Karn told me that on one of his
travels into the Varsoom district he had come upon the wreckage of
an old space ship. The hold of that space ship was packed with Green
Flames!"

If Grannie expected me to show surprise at that, she was disappointed.
I said, "So what?"

"So everything, Billy-boy. Do you realize what such a thing would mean
if it were true? Green Flames were supposedly destroyed on all planets
after the Vennox regime crashed. If a quantity of the rock were in
existence, and it fell into the wrong hands, there'd be trouble.

"Of course, I regarded Karn's story as a wild dream, but it made
corking good story material. I wrote it into a novel, and a week after
it was completed, the manuscript was stolen from my study back on
Earth."

"I see," I said as she lapsed into silence. "And now you've come to the
conclusion that the details of your story were true and that someone is
attempting to put your plot into action."

Grannie nodded. "Yes," she said. "That's exactly what I think."

I got my pipe out of my pocket, tamped Martian tobacco into the bowl
and laughed heartily. "The same old Flowers," I said. "Tell me, who's
your thief ... Doctor Universe?"

She regarded me evenly. "What makes you say that?"

I shrugged.

"The way the theater crowd acted. It all ties in."

The old woman shook her head. "No, this is a lot bigger than a simple
quiz program. The theater crowd was but a cross-section of what is
happening all over the System. There have been riots on Earth and Mars,
police officials murdered on Pluto and a demand that government by
representation be abolished on Jupiter. The time is ripe for a military
dictator to step in.

"And you can lay it all to the Green Flames. It seems incredible that a
single shipload of the ore could effect such a wide ranged area, but in
my opinion someone has found a means of making that quantity a thousand
times more potent and is transmiting it _en masse_."

If it had been anyone but Grannie Annie there before me, I would
have called her a fool. And then all at once I got an odd feeling of
approaching danger.

"Let's get out of here," I said, getting up.

_Zinnng-whack!_

"All right!"

On the mirror behind the bar a small circle with radiating cracks
appeared. On the booth wall a scant inch above Grannie's head the
fresco seemed to melt away suddenly.

A heat ray!

Grannie Annie leaped to her feet, grasped my arm and raced for the
door. Outside a driverless hydrocar stood with idling motors. The old
woman threw herself into the control seat, yanked me in after her and
threw over the starting stud.

An instant later we were plunging through the dark night.

       *       *       *       *       *

Six days after leaving Swamp City we reached Level Five, the last
outpost of firm ground. Ahead lay the inner marsh, stretching as far as
the eye could reach. Low islands projected at intervals from the thick
water. Mold balls, two feet across, drifted down from the slate-gray
sky like puffs of cotton.

We had traveled this far by _ganet_, the tough little two headed pack
animal of the Venus hinterland. Any form of plane or rocket would have
had its motor instantly destroyed, of course, by the magnetic force
belt that encircled the planet's equator. Now our drivers changed to
boatmen, and we loaded our supplies into three clumsy _jagua_ canoes.

It was around the camp fire that night that Grannie took me into her
confidence for the first time since we had left Swamp City.

"We're heading directly for Varsoom country," she said. "If we find
Ezra Karn so much the better. If we don't, we follow his directions to
the lost space ship. Our job is to find that ore and destroy it. You
see, I'm positive the Green Flames have never been removed from the
ship."

Sleep had never bothered me, yet that night I lay awake for hours
tossing restlessly. The thousand sounds of the blue marsh droned
steadily. And the news broadcast I had heard over the portable visi
just before retiring still lingered in my mind. To a casual observer
that broadcast would have meant little, a slight rebellion here, an
isolated crime there. But viewed from the perspective Grannie had
given me, everything dovetailed. The situation on Jupiter was swiftly
coming to a head. Not only had the people on that planet demanded that
representative government be abolished, but a forum was now being held
to find a leader who might take complete dictatorial control.

Outside a whisper-worm hissed softly. I got up and strode out of my
tent. For some time I stood there, lost in thought. Could I believe
Grannie's incredible story? Or was this another of her fantastic plots
which she had skilfully blended into a novel?

Abruptly I stiffened. The familiar drone of the marsh was gone. In its
place a ringing silence blanketed everything.

And then out in the gloom a darker shadow appeared, moving in
undulating sweeps toward the center of the camp. Fascinated, I watched
it advance and retreat, saw two hyalescent eyes swim out of the murk.
It charged, and with but a split second to act, I threw myself flat.
There was a rush of mighty wings as the thing swept over me. Sharp
talons raked my clothing. Again it came, and again I rolled swiftly,
missing the thing by the narrowest of margins.

From the tent opposite a gaunt figure clad in a familiar dress
appeared. Grannie gave a single warning:

"Stand still!"

The thing in the darkness turned like a cam on a rod and drove at us
again. This time the old woman's heat gun clicked, and a tracery of
purple flame shot outward. A horrible soul-chilling scream rent the
air. A moment later something huge and heavy scrabbled across the
ground and shot aloft.

[Illustration: _Grannie Annie fired with deliberate speed._]

I stood frozen as the diminuendo of its wild cries echoed back to me.

"In heaven's name, what was it?"

"Hunter-bird," Grannie said calmly. "A form of avian life found here
in the swamp. Harmless in its wild state, but when captured, it can be
trained to pursue a quarry until it kills. It has a single unit brain
and follows with a relentless purpose."

"Then that would mean...?"

"That it was sent by our enemy, the same enemy that shot at us in the
cafe in Swamp City. Exactly." Grannie Annie halted at the door of her
tent and faced me with earnest eyes. "Billy-boy, our every move is
being watched. From now on it's the survival of the fittest."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following day was our seventh in the swamp. The water here
resembled a vast mosaic, striped and cross-striped with long winding
ribbons of yellowish substance that floated a few inches below the
surface. The mold balls coming into contact with the evonium water of
the swamp had undergone a chemical change and evolved into a cohesive
multi-celled marine life that lived and died within a space of hours.
The Venusians paddled with extreme care. Had one of them dipped his
hand into one of those yellow streaks, he would have been devoured in
a matter of seconds.

At high noon by my Earth watch I sighted a low white structure on one
of the distant islands. Moments later we made a landing at a rude
jetty, and Grannie Annie was introducing me to Ezra Karn.

He was not as old a man as I had expected, but he was ragged and
unkempt with iron gray hair falling almost to his shoulders. He was
dressed in _varpa_ cloth, the Venus equivalent of buckskin, and on his
head was an enormous flop-brimmed hat.

"Glad to meet you," he said, shaking my hand. "Any friend of Miss
Flowers is a friend of mine." He ushered us down the catwalk into his
hut.

The place was a two room affair, small but comfortable. The latest
type of visi set in one corner showed that Karn was not isolated from
civilization entirely.

Grannie Annie came to the point abruptly. When she had explained the
object of our trip, the prospector became thoughtful.

"Green Flames, eh?" he repeated slowly. "Well yes, I suppose I could
find that space ship again. That is, if I wanted to."

"What do you mean?" Grannie paused in the act of rolling herself a
cigarette. "You know where it is, don't you?"

"Ye-s," Karn nodded. "But like I told you before, that ship lies in
Varsoom country, and that isn't exactly a summer vacation spot."

"What are the Varsoom?" I asked. "A native tribe?"

Karn shook his head. "They're a form of life that's never been seen by
Earthmen. Strictly speaking, they're no more than a form of energy."

"Dangerous?"

"Yes and no. Only man I ever heard of who escaped their country outside
of myself was the explorer, Darthier, three years ago. I got away
because I was alone, and they didn't notice me, and Darthier escaped
because he made 'em laugh."

"Laugh?" A scowl crossed Grannie's face.

"That's right," Karn said. "The Varsoom have a strange nervous reaction
that's manifested by laughing. But just what it is that makes them
laugh, I don't know."

Food supplies and fresh drinking water were replenished at the hut.
Several mold guns were borrowed from the prospector's supply to arm the
Venusians. And then as we were about to leave, Karn suddenly turned.

"The Doctor Universe program," he said. "I ain't missed one in months.
You gotta wait 'til I hear it."

Grannie frowned in annoyance, but the prospector was adamant. He
flipped a stud, twisted a dial and a moment later was leaning back in a
chair, listening with avid interest.

It was the same show I had witnessed back in Swamp City. Once again I
heard questions filter in from the far outposts of the System. Once
again I saw the commanding figure of the quiz master as he strode back
and forth across the stage. And as I sat there, looking into the visi
screen, a curious numbing drowsiness seemed to steal over me and lead
my thoughts far away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later we headed into the unknown. The Venusian boatmen
were ill-at-ease now and jabbered among themselves constantly. We
camped that night on a miserable little island where insects swarmed
about us in hordes. The next day an indefinable wave of weariness and
despondency beset our entire party. I caught myself musing over the
futility of the venture. Only the pleadings of Grannie Annie kept me
from turning back. On the morrow I realized the truth in her warning,
that all of us had been exposed to the insidious radiations.

After that I lost track of time. Day after day of incessant rain ... of
steaming swamp.... But at length we reached firm ground and began our
advance on foot.

It was Karn who first sighted the ship. Striding in the lead, he
suddenly halted at the top of a hill and leveled his arm before him.
There it lay, a huge cigar-shaped vessel of blackened _arelium_ steel,
half buried in the swamp soil.

"What's that thing on top?" Karn demanded, puzzled.

A rectangular metal envelope had been constructed over the stern
quarters of the ship. Above this structure were three tall masts. And
suspended between them was a network of copper wire studded with white
insulators.

Grannie gazed a long moment through binoculars. "Billy-boy, take three
Venusians and head across the knoll," she ordered. "Ezra and I will
circle in from the west. Fire a gun if you strike trouble."

But we found no trouble. The scene before us lay steeped in silence.
Moments later our two parties converged at the base of the great ship.

A metal ladder extended from the envelope down the side of the vessel.
Mid-way we could see a circular hatch-like door.

"Up we go, Billy-boy." Heat gun in readiness, Grannie Annie began to
climb slowly.

The silence remained absolute. We reached the door and pulled it open.
There was no sign of life.

"Somebody's gone to a lot of trouble here," Ezra Karn observed.

Somebody had. Before us stretched a narrow corridor, flanked on the
left side by a wall of impenetrable stepto glass. The corridor was
bare of furnishings. But beyond the glass, revealed to us in mocking
clarity, was a high panel, studded with dials and gauges. Even as we
looked, we could see liquid pulse in glass tubes, indicator needles
swing slowly to and fro.

Grannie nodded. "Some kind of a broadcasting unit. The Green Flames in
the lower hold are probably exposed to a _tholpane_ plate and their
radiations stepped up by an electro-phosicalic process."

Karn raised the butt of his pistol and brought it crashing against the
glass wall. His arm jumped in recoil, but the glass remained intact.

"You'll never do it that way," Grannie said. "Nothing short of an
atomic blast will shatter that wall. It explains why there are no
guards here. The mechanism is entirely self-operating. Let's see if the
Green Flames are more accessible."

In the lower hold disappointment again confronted us. Visible in
the feeble shafts of daylight that filtered through cracks in the
vessel's hull were tiers of rectangular ingots of green iridescent ore.
Suspended by insulators from the ceiling over them was a thick metal
plate.

But between was a barrier. A wall of impenetrable stepto glass.

Grannie stamped her foot. "It's maddening," she said. "Here we are at
the crux of the whole matter, and we're powerless to make a single
move."

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside the day was beginning to wane. The Venusians, apparently
unawed by the presence of the space ship, had already started a fire
and erected the tents. We left the vessel to find a spell of brooding
desolation heavy over the improvised camp. And the evening meal this
time was a gloomy affair. When it was finished, Ezra Karn lit his pipe
and switched on the portable visi set. A moment later the silence of
the march was broken by the opening fanfare of the Doctor Universe
program.

"Great stuff," Karn commented. "I sent in a couple of questions once,
but I never did win nothin'. This Doctor Universe is a great guy. Ought
to make him king or somethin'."

For a moment none of us made reply. Then suddenly Grannie Annie leaped
to her feet.

"Say that again!" she cried.

The old prospector looked startled. "Why, I only said they ought to
make this Doctor Universe the big boss and...."

"That's it!" Grannie paced ten yards off into the gathering darkness
and returned quickly. "Billy-boy, you were right. The man behind this
_is_ Doctor Universe. It was he who stole my manuscript and devised a
method to amplify the radiations of the Green Flames in the freighter's
hold. He lit on a sure-fire plan to broadcast those radiations in such
a way that millions of persons would be exposed to them simultaneously.
Don't you see?"

I didn't see, but Grannie hurried on.

"What better way to expose civilized life to the Green Flames
radiations than when the people are in a state of relaxation. The
Doctor Universe quiz program. The whole System tuned in on them, but
they were only a blind to cover up the transmission of the radiations
from the ore. Their power must have been amplified a thousandfold, and
their wave-length must lie somewhere between light and the supersonic
scale in that transition band which so far has defied exploration...."

"But with what motive?" I demanded. "Why should...?"

"Power!" the old woman answered. "The old thirst for dictatorial
control of the masses. By presenting himself as an intellectual genius,
Doctor Universe utilized a bizarre method to intrench himself in the
minds of the people. Oh, don't you see, Billy-boy? The Green Flames'
radiations spell doom to freedom, individual liberty."

I sat there stupidly, wondering if this all were some wild dream.

And then, as I looked across at Grannie Annie, the vague light over the
tents seemed to shift a little, as if one layer of the atmosphere had
dropped away to be replaced by another.

There it was again, a definite movement in the air. Somehow I got the
impression I was looking around that space rather than through it. And
simultaneously Ezra Karn uttered a howl of pain. An instant later the
old prospector was rolling over and over, threshing his arms wildly.

An invisible sledge hammer descended on my shoulder. The blow was
followed by another and another. Heavy unseen hands held me down.
Opposite me Grannie Annie and the Venusians were suffering similar
punishment, the latter screaming in pain and bewilderment.

"It's the Varsoom!" Ezra Karn yelled. "We've got to make 'em laugh. Our
only escape is to make 'em laugh!"

He struggled to his feet and began leaping wildly around the camp fire.
Abruptly his foot caught on a log protruding from the fire; he tripped
and fell headlong into a mass of hot coals and ashes. Like a jumping
jack he was on his feet again, clawing dirt and soot from his eyes.

Out of the empty space about us there came a sudden hush. The unseen
blows ceased in mid-career. And then the silence was rent by wild
laughter. Peal after peal of mirthful yells pounded against our ears.
For many moments it continued; then it died away, and everything was
peaceful once more.

Grannie Annie picked herself up slowly. "That was close," she said. "I
wouldn't want to go through that again."

Ezra Karn nursed an ugly welt under one eye. "Those Varsoom got a funny
sense of humor," he growled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside the freighter's narrow corridor Grannie faced me with eyes
filled with excitement.

"Billy-boy," she said, "we've got two problems now. We've got to stop
Doctor Universe, and we've got to find a way of getting out of here.
Right now we're nicely bottled up."

As if in answer to her words the visi set revealed the face of the quiz
master on the screen. He was saying:

"_Remember tomorrow at this same hour I will have a message of
unparalleled importance for the people of the nine planets. Tomorrow
night I urge you, I command you, to tune in._"

With a whistling intake of breath the old woman turned to one of the
Venusians.

"Bring all our equipment in here," she ordered. "Hurry!"

She untied the ribbon under her chin and took off her cap. She rolled
up her sleeves, and as the Venusians came marching into the space ship
with bundles of equipment, she fell to work.

Silently Ezra Karn and I watched her. First she completely dismantled
the visi set, put it together again with an entirely altered hookup.
Next she unrolled a coil of flexible copper mesh which we had brought
along as a protective electrical screening against the marsh insects.
She fastened rubberite suction cups to this mesh at intervals of every
twelve inches or more, carried it down to the freighter's hold and
fastened it securely against the stepto glass wall.

Trailing a three-ply conduit up from the hold to the corridor she
selected an induction coil, several Micro-Wellman tubes and a quantity
of wire from a box of spare parts. Dexterously her fingers moved in and
out, fashioning a complicated and curious piece of apparatus.

At length she finished.

"It's pretty hay-wire," she said, "but I think it will work. Now I'll
tell you what I'm going to do. When Doctor Universe broadcasts tomorrow
night, he's going to announce that he has set himself up as supreme
dictator. He'll have the Green Flame radiations coming from this ship
under full power. I'm going to insert into his broadcast--the laughing
of the Varsoom!"

"You're going to what?"

"Broadcast the mass laughter from those invisible creatures out there.
Visualize it, Billy-boy! At the dramatic moment when Doctor Universe
makes his plea for System-wide power, he will be accompanied by wild
peals of laughter. The whole broadcast will be turned into a burlesque."

"How you going to make 'em laugh?" interrupted Karn.

"We must think of a way," Grannie replied soberly.

I, for one, am glad that no representative of the Interstellar
Psychiatry Society witnessed our antics during the early hours of that
morning and on into the long reaches of the afternoon, as we vainly
tried to provoke the laughter of the Varsoom. All to no avail. Utter
silence greeted our efforts. And the time was growing close to the
scheduled Doctor Universe program.

Ezra Karn wiped a bead of perspiration from his brow. "Maybe we've got
to attract their attention first," he suggested. "Miss Flowers, why
don't you go up on the roof and read to 'em? Read 'em something from
one of your books, if you've got one along. That ought to make 'em sit
up and take notice."

For a moment the old woman gazed at him in silence. Then she got to her
feet quickly.

"I'll do it," she said. "I'll read them the attack scene from _Murder
On A Space Liner_."

       *       *       *       *       *

It didn't make sense, of course. But nothing made sense in this mad
venture. Grannie Annie opened her duffel bag and drew out a copy of
her most popular book. With the volume under her arm, she mounted the
ladder to the top of the envelope. Ezra Karn rigged up a radite search
lamp, and a moment later the old woman stood in the center of a circle
of white radiance.

Karn gripped my arm. "This is it," he said tensely. "If this fails ..."

His voice clipped off as Grannie began to read. She read slowly
at first, then intoned the words and sentences faster and more
dramatically.

And out in the swamp a vast hush fell as if unseen ears were listening.

"... _the space liner was over on her beam ends now as another shot
from the raider's vessel crashed into the stern hold. In the control
cabin Cuthbert Strong twisted vainly at his bonds as he sought to free
himself. Opposite him, lashed by strong Martian vinta ropes to the
gravascope, Louise Belmont sobbed softly, wringing her hands in mute
appeal._"

A restless rustling sounded out in the marsh, as if hundreds of bodies
were surging closer. Karn nodded in awe.

"She's got 'em!" he whispered. "Listen. They're eatin' up every word."

I heard it then, and I thought I must be dreaming. From somewhere out
in the swamp a sound rose into the thick air. A high-pitched chuckle,
it was. The chuckle came again. Now it was followed by another and
another. An instant later a wave of low subdued laughter rose into the
air.

Ezra Karn gulped. "Gripes!" he said. "They're laughing already.
_They're laughing at her book!_ And look, the old lady's gettin' sore."

Up on the roof of the envelope Grannie Annie halted her reading to
glare savagely out into the darkness.

The laughter was a roar now. It rose louder and louder, peal after peal
of mirthful yells and hysterical shouts. And for the first time in my
life, I saw Annabella C. Flowers mad. She stamped her foot; she shook
her fist at the unseen hordes out before her.

"Ignorant slap-happy fools!" she screamed. "You don't know good science
fiction when you hear it."

I turned to Karn and said quietly, "Turn on the visi set. Doctor
Universe should be broadcasting now. Tune your microphone to pull in
as much of that laughter as you can."

       *       *       *       *       *

It took three weeks to make the return trip to Swamp City. The Varsoom
followed us far beyond the frontier of their country like an unseen
army in the throes of laughing gas. Not until we reached Level Five did
the last chuckle fade into the distance.

All during that trek back, Grannie sat in the dugout, staring silently
out before her.

But when we reached Swamp City, the news was flung at us from all
sides. One newspaper headline accurately told the story: DOCTOR
UNIVERSE BID FOR SYSTEM DICTATORSHIP SQUELCHED BY RIDICULE OF UNSEEN
AUDIENCE. QUIZ MASTER NOW IN HANDS OF I.P. COUP FAILURE.

"Grannie," I said that night as we sat again in a rear booth of THE
JET, "what are you going to do now? Give up writing science fiction?"

She looked at me soberly, then broke into a smile.

"Just because some silly form of life that can't even be seen doesn't
appreciate it? I should say not. Right now I've got an idea for a swell
yarn about Mars. Want to come along while I dig up some background
material?"

I shook my head. "Not me," I said.

But I knew I would.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Doctor Universe, by Carl Jacobi

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOCTOR UNIVERSE ***

***** This file should be named 63109.txt or 63109.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/1/0/63109/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
