The Project Gutenberg EBook of Mind-Stealers of Pluto, by Joseph Farrell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Mind-Stealers of Pluto

Author: Joseph Farrell

Release Date: October 6, 2020 [EBook #63393]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MIND-STEALERS OF PLUTO ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        MIND STEALERS OF PLUTO

                           By JOSEPH FARRELL

             Ron Barnard had stuck his nose into one news
             story too many. It had started with a lovely
               girl, a wily Chinese and a drug ring that
               circled the System. Now it was ending for
                him in a rogue spaceship--his epitaph a
               rocket's red stream across the starways.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Ron Barnard leaned unhappily on Quong Kee's bar and looked over the
worst dive on Mars. This hell hole of Quong Kee's was no fit place
even for a newspaperman looking for a story on the dope ring that was
haunting the outer planets. The habitues were cut-throats, fugitives
from Earth and the space police. To say nothing of the _neoin_ fiends.

The two unshaven men hunched at a corner table, for instance. He eyed
them in contempt. They were far gone in their addiction to the drug,
and he would put no crime past them. They probably would murder their
grandmothers for a gram of _neoin_.

The two persons in question straightened as if a gun had been fired.
They faced the bar, and their questing eyes found Barnard. One of them,
teeth bared and hands bent into claws, started to move toward the
reporter.

"What did you think?" the man demanded.

Barnard dropped a coin on the bar and tried to walk carelessly to the
door. He wanted no fights with a _neoin_-filled madman. Silently he
cursed himself for forgetting the extra sensory powers imparted by the
drug. But the men had seemed too far gone to use their ESP.

The man charged across the room. Barnard saw that escape was out and
resigned himself to a fight. He waited for the wild lunge, sidestepped
and shot in a right that sent the addict reeling back. A few customers
watched with mild interest. But this was routine at Quong Kee's--nobody
would interfere.

Sullenly, the man glared at him, as if gathering courage for another
charge. Barnard knew that actually the irresponsible creature was
working himself up to a murderous pitch. Now he felt the waves of fury
beating at his mind.

He waited, tense and ready. From the corner of his vision he saw the
drapes that cut off the back room come apart, and a figure hurrying
out. A slender figure in faded coveralls. Then he looked again.

It was a woman--a slender pale girl who clicked somehow in his memory.
He had seen her around Kainor, this port city of Mars, several times in
the past few days.

Watching her, he almost missed the onslaught of the _neoin_ fiend. The
fury of the charge backed him to the wall and he lashed out desperately
against the claws and knees of the man. His head jammed against the
wall and crimson streaks exploded before him. He jabbed with aching
arms, trying to push the madman off. Dimly, he saw the girl trying to
whisper something in the fiend's ear.

The man broke off clawing suddenly, a look of surprise on his twisted
face. Barnard watched weakly as he backed off a few steps to listen to
what the girl was whispering. Then the man glared with sullen respect
at Barnard for a few seconds and went back to his friend.

The girl turned swiftly and started back for the drapes. Barnard caught
her arm.

"Miss--" He stared at her. It was his first good look, and he wondered
where she had found the courage to interfere with a raging _neoin_
fiend. If that man had turned on her--!

She wasn't beautiful--she looked as if she hadn't slept much lately.
If somebody could put a few pounds on her in the right places--and a
smile on her face--

"Thanks," he said, puffing. "I was in a spot--you can't hurt those lads
when they're hopped. What did you tell him, anyway?"

She shrank back a little. Strangely, he felt that the fear in her
eyes was more of him than of the cut-throats in Quong Kee's. Her face
acquired a faint touch of color.

"I told him," she said, "that I'd take away his _neoin_ ration card."

She pulled loose and disappeared into the other room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Barnard stared at the drapes and grinned a little at the evasive
answer. What had she told the fiend? If he knew, it might help him to
get some news. And what was she doing here in this dive--he'd swear she
wasn't the type!

He thought of the boss back on Earth thundering through the news
room as Barnard's meager despatches dribbled through. But Hell! He'd
done all any human could possibly do! He'd spoken with officials and
spacemen and scientists, poked his skinny nose into dens like this
where a man risked his life if he so much as _thought_ out of line.
He'd even bought some of the drug from the peddlers who operated almost
openly, and he'd cultivated them, but they were only tools.

The higher-ups might have been invisible for all anybody knew about
them. Nobody even knew where the drug came from. But wherever it
originated, it was swiftly corrupting Mars and Venus, as well as the
Jovian system and the asteroid belt.

When small quantities appeared on Earth, the powers-that-be of the
System News Service smelled news. Ron Barnard, star reporter who had
unveiled many a scandal in gay twenty-third century New York, was sent
to investigate. And Ron Barnard stood in Mars' wildest dive, scratching
his head and staring after a frightened, pretty girl.

"That's my sister," said a childish voice beside him.

Barnard stared at the big man beside him. The man was a splendid
physical specimen, but his face--

It was the face of a mindless idiot.

Barnard felt repelled. The man's features were not idiotic; they
should have been those of an intelligent person. But the eyes changed
everything. They were blank and somehow--soulless. Barnard shrank
automatically away from the apelike creature.

Then he understood what the idiot had said.

"Your sister!" He stared unbelievingly.

The gray haired shambling being gurgled, childlike. "My sister--Gail."

Barnard felt a curious shame in finding a human being in such a state,
talking like a baby. But maybe he could learn something. He dug into
his pocket, thrust a coin into the idiot's palm.

"What does your sister do? Does she maybe sell little packages of gray
powder to people?"

The creature looked naively at him. "Gail don't like the gray powder.
She says I must never eat the gray powder. Do you want some? Lots of
mans here sells some."

Barnard thought. He had seen that girl before. A hunch began to grow in
him.

"What's your name?" he asked.

"George Melvin," the idiot said.

"George!"

It was Gail Melvin's voice. Barnard saw her in the doorway of Quong
Kee's back room. George went dutifully to her, clutching the coin
Barnard had handed him. The girl took his hand and pulled him inside.

Barnard regarded the doorway sourly. He looked around Quong Kee's,
caught the glance of the maniac who had attacked him. He took his coat
and airpac and left hastily.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the communications center he sent another despatch. Nothing much to
report, and he knew the boss wouldn't like it. The System News Service
firmly believed that scoops grew on Martian trees and Ron Barnard was
expected to pick out a nice one to feed the hungry public.

Jingling the change in his pocket, he sensed something wrong, and
pulled out the coins for a look. His lucky coin was missing--a rare
twentieth century Buffalo nickel. He had given it to the half wit.

He fingered the bruises the _neoin_ fiend had made on his face and
grinned humorlessly. The coin hadn't brought him much luck.

He was going into his hotel when he sighted George Melvin shambling
down the street. He paused, waiting for the half-wit to reach him. It
was cold, and he wanted to get inside, but leads were scarce. He fell
into step beside George.

"Hello, George," he said. "Where do you and Gail live?"

The half wit looked innocently at him. His airpac was strapped around
the collar of his coat. Evidently Gail did not consider him intelligent
enough even to breathe properly on Mars! Barnard squeezed his own
airpac in an automatic motion. Oxygen on Mars was just short of enough
for humans. A man would sooner be minus his pants than his airpac,
though Martian-born humans needed them only at time of exertion.

"We live in Chicago."

"Yes--that's on Earth. But where do you stay on Mars?"

"In Chicago on Mars, too."

Barnard looked suspiciously at him. But the vacuous expression
certainly was not feigned; George Melvin's eyes were less intelligent
than a fish's.

"Do you stay at Quong Kee's?" the reporter tried.

"Sometimes. At night we go back to Chicago. Where do you stay?"

"In the fog, most of the time." Barnard tried another line. "Where's
Gail now?"

"In jail." George Melvin said it without changing his tone or his
expression.

Barnard seized his coat front and stared into the dull eyes. "In jail?
George, what happened? Who arrested her? Why?"

"A man came. A man with a star on his hat--"

"The Space Police!"

Barnard released the half-wit. He stared happily toward the gray
building of the Space Police. This was something--he felt the hunch too
strongly to have any doubt. The story was going to break!

The Space Police were relatively new, and it behooved them to be good
to the press, for there was still much opposition to their existence.
He hesitated a moment, thinking of the lack of enthusiasm with which
Commander John Lansfer had received him. But Lansfer would let him in
on the story, or there'd be some hot articles in the newspapers of the
System News Service.

He pushed another coin into George Melvin's paw. "George, go back to
Quong Kee's and wait until I come. Do you understand? I'm going to find
out about Gail."

Watching the half-wit disappear, he felt a pang where his conscience
should have been. Somehow he didn't like the idea of Gail Melvin as a
part of this _neoin_ ring.

"Hell," he growled to himself. "I can't afford to be human. I have a
job to do--and the System News Service comes first."

He pushed into a thin cold Martian wind and hurried toward the warmth
of the police building.


                                  II

Barnard looked through narrowed eyes at Commander Lansfer of the Space
Police, and he knew the man was lying. All his newsman's instinct told
him that the dark-haired, sharp-featured police officer knew more than
he was telling. He leaned across the desk.

"Commander, I came all the way from Earth to get the inside on this
dope ring. Who's behind it? Where does it come from?"

Lansfer shrugged slightly. His face was expressionless, as always. "We
are working on the problem," he said.

Barnard made a disgusted gesture. "We know that the outer planets are
being flooded with _neoin_. Mars is full of human wrecks, and half the
asterites are using the stuff. If it ever gets loose on Earth, the
human race will have a worse enemy than the black plague."

"We will cooperate with the press," said Lansfer, "as far as it's
practical to do so. In the meantime, you may be sure we're not
sleeping."

"I hope not." Barnard glared at the policeman and made a mental note to
pan the Space Police in his next despatch. "And how does Gail Melvin
fit in?"

"Gail Melvin is a minor peddler. We've nothing on her--just took her
in for questioning, to be sure she knew nothing important." A trace of
annoyance shaded his eyes for a moment. "But we took her in quietly.
How did you find out about it?"

"From my special secret service," said Barnard dryly.

"Then," said Lansfer, "your secret service can tell you the rest of the
story. If you're quite through--"

They stood and for a second faced each other across the desk. Lansfer,
six hard feet of spaceman, hard jawed and poker faced. Barnard, six
lean flexible feet of newsman, crowding his thermostats. Then Barnard
whirled and went out.

Standing before the building, he reflected. No news meant the boss
would be sending more spacegrams threatening to fire him--and meaning
it. His hunch was still solid on Lansfer's knowing something. There was
something behind the secrecy with which the space police worked, but--

There was more than one way to find out. If Lansfer wouldn't talk,
other policemen might. He looked around, found the nearest saloon. Some
of the space police had just finished their day's work. Thoughtfully
jingling the platinum coins in his pocket, he went into the saloon.

Alone at one end of the bar was a patrolman. Barnard took a place
beside him and ordered a drink.

"H'lo, Remish," he said. "What's the news on Gail Melvin?"

Remish grinned and shook his head. Barnard felt a slight distaste for
what he was about to do. It didn't seem right.

He took a balled fist from his pocket and opened it slowly, holding it
between himself and the patrolman so that it was not visible to anybody
else in the room. He opened it just enough for Remish to see the five
Martian platins.

Remish turned and faced the row of bottles behind the bar. His face was
blank. For a long minute he said nothing. Then:

"I don't like that, Barnard. I could use that as well as anybody. But
there's something I like better."

Barnard hadn't liked it either. But hell--after some of the police he'd
met on the outer planets, he couldn't help but be cynical. He raised
his glass and threw down the drink.

"It's everyday stuff, of course," Remish conceded. "But I'm going to
be one cop who's different. There's talk enough now about the Space
Patrol--that we're fronting for pirates and transporting _neoin_. And
some funny things have been going on."

He fingered his glass thoughtfully. "Nothing I can put a definite
finger on," he mused. "But maybe you're the man who can do it. With the
System News Service behind you--

"I don't know much," he went on. "But I'll play along with you--and I
hope I'm doing the right thing. Gail Melvin--the chief had her under
a Sokolsky lie detector. Greatest thing in lie detectors yet. She was
clear--has no connection with the dope ring."

Barnard caught his breath. Gail Melvin had no connection with the
_neoin_ gang? But Lansfer had said she was a minor peddler?

The patrolman stared into his glass of _boorsha_ for a moment,
hesitating. He turned again to Barnard. "Another thing. That George
Melvin is faking. He's no more of a half-wit than I am--I hope. When I
last saw him, he was on Venus running the swankiest gin mill in Lidice.
He and his partner--Quong Kee!"

Barnard stared incredulously at the patrolman. "George Melvin faking!
Not a chance--he's just what he seems to be, and I wouldn't bet any
more on a royal flush!"

"I know," Remish shrugged. "And do you want to know something else? I
haven't been able to find a person who's seen Quong Kee since he came
to Mars!"

Barnard slowly put down his drink and left the saloon.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sailed into Quong Kee's, paused cautiously to see that the fiend who
had attacked him was sleeping with his head on the table, and plunged
through the drapes into the back room. There was an answer to this and
he was bound he'd find it.

A gray, tired Chinese looked up from behind a desk. His right hand had
darted to the edge of the desk when Barnard entered. Thoughtfully, he
studied the reporter and folded his hands.

Barnard faced him. "Quong Kee. You and George Melvin were partners at
one time."

Quong Kee gazed back coolly, and Barnard saw that he'd learn only what
the man decided he should know. After a while Quong Kee nodded.

"Yes--Mr. Barnard. George Melvin was--and is--my partner."

"How did you know me?" Barnard demanded. "You never leave this room."

A tired smile flickered over the thin lips. "Earlier this evening I
watched Miss Melvin extricate you from a difficult position. Until
she informed me that you were seeking news, I never realized that
journalism involved such jeopardy."

Barnard grinned involuntarily. He was beginning to like this Oriental
who spoke in cultured tones. Since he realized that threats or bribes
would do no good, he gave in to the impulsive liking.

"Mind telling me something about Gail Melvin?" he asked. "And about
things in general?"

Quong Kee peered narrowly at Barnard through half-closed eyes. The
reporter wondered uncomfortably if the man used _neoin_ and was
studying him with extra sensory faculties, but he swiftly rejected the
thought. There was no trace of the drug in Quong Kee's appearance.
Maybe it was natural ESP--or just an old-fashioned sizing-up.

"You are very anxious to secure this--scoop, aren't you, Mr. Barnard?"

Barnard thrust his face closer. "Quong Kee," he said slowly, "I would
give my right arm to break this story. I would cut every throat on Mars
if it would help me to find out where _neoin_ comes from."

He meant it--almost, anyway. Somehow the thought of cutting Gail
Melvin's throat persisted. He forced the thought back. No price was too
high!

"I, too, would give much to destroy the drug traffic," Quong Kee said
softly. "George Melvin and I operated an establishment in Lidice,
Venus--until _neoin_ appeared. We were doing excellently. But then
George became involved in a crusade against the drug peddlers. He found
out some things--I do not know exactly what.

"But he disappeared. And things began to happen to our establishment.
Things like bombs, bullets, poison in the food--I was forced to close
and barely escaped with my life."

He picked up the mounted photograph that Barnard had vaguely noticed
on the desk and turned it for the reporter to see. Barnard recognized
Quong Kee and--George Melvin! But a George Melvin whose eyes were
young and intelligent and flashing with the joy of living!

"Gail located him," said Quong Kee, "through the Missing Persons
Division. He was here in Kainor, in the condition in which you saw him
tonight. Gail and I packed what we could into George's space ship,
the _Chicago_, and we came here, where I opened this--ah--place of
refreshment."

"_Chicago_," Barnard mused. "I should have guessed that."

"Gail recognized you standing out there this evening," said Quong Kee.
Again the haunted smile crept over his lips. "I can't understand her
motivation for intervening in your quarrel. She told me you were a
great reporter who might expose the criminals and she had to save you."

"Isn't that reason enough?" Barnard demanded suspiciously. "What did
she say to him?"

"She told him you were a higher-up in the _neoin_ organization and
would see that his supply was stopped if he harmed you. A clever
girl--but foolish."

Barnard didn't ask why. "Where is George Melvin now?" he demanded.

Before Quong Kee could answer, the pound of heavy feet sounded in the
doorway. Barnard whirled and watched the three local policemen march in.

"Where's the body?" asked the leader.

Quong Kee's eyes flickered briefly toward Barnard, and he gestured
toward something the newsman hadn't noticed. In a corner of the room
was a bed. With something on it. The policeman yanked a sheet off the
something. Barnard felt the hairs on the back of his neck beginning to
rise.

He stared at the body of George Melvin.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I had my men detain everybody," Quong Kee told the police. "But the
body was discovered close to the door, indicating that the murderer
escaped. Several fights were in progress at the time, and it is
possible that he was struck by a stray knife, but I doubt it."

"No," the policeman grunted. "The knife struck upwards and his pockets
have been searched."

"Evidently he was enticed into the hallway for that purpose," said
Quong Kee.

Barnard frowned, watching the police examine the knife that protruded
from George Melvin's chest. Then the dope ring, fearing that he would
divulge something, had finished him off.

But that didn't make sense. They had seemed pleased to let him run
loose before, probably as an example--why the sudden fear of his
talking? He thought suddenly of the new lie detector mentioned by
Remish, and wondered if that instrument could reach even into the mind
that George Melvin did not have.

He stayed close to the police as they made a brief examination, asking
a few questions and then closing up their notebooks and leaving. It
was clear that they didn't expect to solve the murder. To them it was
routine--another derelict knifed by a _neoin_ fiend.

The whole thing made Barnard a little sick. He gazed uncomfortably at
the corpse. The man had hardly known that he lived, yet--

His lucky nickel hadn't brought much luck lately. It seemed to have
turned into a Jonah.

He said nothing until the police had departed and the body had been
removed. When he and Quong Kee were alone, he asked:

"Does Gail know this yet?"

"No."

"She's the only lead now." A thought made him uncomfortable. "Quong
Kee--do you think she's in danger?"

The Chinese shrugged. He looked suddenly ancient, tired. His weary eyes
met Barnard's.

"Since I've been on Mars, I've never left this room. Call it cowardice
or intelligence, but I dare not expose myself. They haven't molested
me here--my current clientele wouldn't be disturbed by a few bombs,
anyway. And here I am protected--you narrowly escaped death when you
entered this room."

He ran his hand along the side of his desk. "I could fill this room
with the deadliest rays known to military science. I mention this by
way of reminding you that you are not in a friendly game. You stand an
excellent chance of being killed, or of losing your mind."

That shocked Barnard for about one second. But he had no time to be
bothered with danger. And the System News Service was all-important.

"I'll take the chance," he said grimly. "Where's Gail?"

Quong Kee's haunted eyes closed momentarily. "She is on the _Chicago_.
She needs somebody now, Ron Barnard. Go to her. I can't help; I'm an
old man and afraid for my life. You are young and strong. There is
danger, but go to her. Even if only for your scoop."

Something in the old man's voice was hypnotic. Barnard stared at him.
"Where is this _Chicago_?" he asked.

"It's at Main Spaceport, in the public field. If she is not there, use
this key and wait for her."

Barnard rose slowly. He tried to shake a lump out of his throat,
cursing himself for going soft. Sitting here listening to an old man
mouth sentiment--he shook his head angrily and glared at Quong Kee.

"I'll go," he said. "But _only_ for the scoop."


                                  III

Quong Kee's faintly cynical smile didn't make him feel any better.
Leaving the place, he glared belligerently at the maniac he had fought
with. Marching to the spaceport, his feelings intensified so that he
forgot to walk slowly, the first rule on Mars, and had to hold his
airpac to his nostrils all the way. By the time he found the _Chicago_,
his fingers were stiff from holding the instrument.

"Damn that living relic of a Quong Kee," he muttered, changing hands.
"Damn everything!"

So the girl needed him. He growled at the idea of the Chinese putting
the girl ahead of the System News Service.

His sense of humor came through then, and he laughed at himself.
Ron Barnard, the hardest hearted reporter in the Solar System, was
developing a crush on a girl he hardly knew! He chuckled at his
emotions as if they were somebody else's.

"If the boys in the city room ever hear of this," he thought, "they'll
laugh me right off Earth. I'll have to become a space-beacon keeper."

He stood for a minute sizing up the _Chicago_. Odd, he reflected,
how the human mind before space travel had pictured space craft as
wingless and cigar shaped. This rugged model, of an almost forgotten
vintage, was short and stubby and wide winged. It scarcely looked
spaceworthy, but the skies were filled with old craft like this one.

He used the key Quong Kee had given him and found the ship deserted.
The interior was better. He was pleased to find a three-inch layer of
Selene between the hulls. The artificial spider silk, closely woven and
specially processed, was as tough as any material in existence and its
insulating qualities couldn't be matched.

In the spotless control cabin he found that the instruments were
fully modern. The cabin was globular; gyroscopes kept the gravity--if
any--under its floor. A glance into other compartments brought a
whistle to his lips--the _Chicago_ was crammed with fuel and food. Gail
Melvin must have prepared this as a permanent home.

Two tiny sections were the sleeping quarters of Gail and George Melvin.
He poked around them until a feeling of guilt made him stop. He sank
into a spongy, bolted-down chair, damning his new-found ethics. He'd
straighten out a few things when that female showed up.

       *       *       *       *       *

She didn't seem surprised to see him. She glanced his way casually and
started tugging off her heavy coat. A gentlemanly impulse almost had
him out of his seat to help her, but he stifled it.

Her nose was red from the mild summer weather of Mars, and he thought
briefly that if her cheeks were a little fuller, she would probably
be more or less good looking. As a matter of plain fact, she was too
damned skinny. She must spend most of her time worrying about her
brother.

She was taller than he had thought, but still looked slight and
helpless. And hopeless as well. Her shoulders drooped a little as she
faced him.

"I saw Quong Kee," she said.

"Oh--I'm sorry about your brother." He hesitated. "Have you any idea
who did it?"

He almost squirmed when she looked at him. The expression in her eyes
was not entirely friendly.

"I have ideas," she said. "And they're not nice."

Her eyes were dark and smoldering now.

"They questioned George with a new type of lie detector--Skolssolky or
some such name. I wasn't supposed to know--"

Barnard's eyebrows went up. "The police questioned George? Somebody
must have found out!"

Gail dropped her coat over the back of another chair and sat on the
chair. She was pale and her eyes were haggard.

"When I found the police had picked him up," she said, "I took an
espine pill and became _en rapport_ with him."

She pressed her slender fingers against her temples. "I'm
tired ... espine isn't as bad as _neoin_, of course, but it has a
strong reaction. They found out some things from George that I'd never
been able to find out.

"This instrument reaches deeper into the subconscious than anything
ever used before. Even so, everything was vague. But George had been on
Pluto. Somehow he'd followed the _neoin_ trail there; how, I don't know.

"But on Pluto, they did something to him. They took his mind and made
him like a new-born child. His brain was perfectly blank. I've been
teaching him as I'd teach an infant--but he was so slow learning."

"Pluto--" Barnard stared. "Then _neoin_ comes from Pluto. Lansfer knows
this--"

He looked at the girl and damned his conscience again. There was a
first aid box set into the wall, and he found a bottle of brandy in it.
A small black bottle was there. He noted the label--_Espine_, another
outlawed drug the authorities tolerated for emergency purposes. Not
habit-forming, but continued use of it would soften the brain and wreck
the nerve centers.

He slammed the cabinet door on the black bottle. She had reason to be
tired.

He made her drink the brandy. She spoke softly, between sips. "When
I heard that, I determined to go to Pluto. If something there could
take my brother's intelligence away, we might be able to reverse the
process."

"Or lose your own," Barnard murmured.

"When Quong Kee told me about the--George, it changed all that, of
course. There was no need to go to Pluto."

"You've got your nerve," Barnard growled. "You speak very calmly about
invading Pluto single handed."

Definitely, Pluto was no place for her. But he had to be in on the
kill. Would Lansfer cooperate?

"Miss Melvin," he said, "I'll have to see the Space Police, find out if
they'll take me with them. I suspect they won't. So I'm going to cable
my boss for money, and if it's all right with you, I'll charter this
ship--"

"I'll be very happy," she said, "to take you with me to Pluto--so you
can get your story."

He stared. "But--you mean you still intend to go to Pluto? What
possible reason could you have now?"

       *       *       *       *       *

She reached for her coat and dug into the sleeve. Barnard blinked when
three of her fingers came out at the shoulder.

"That hole," she said, "was made by a bullet. Somebody took a shot at
me on the way over here, and I've been followed. Evidently they've
decided I know too much. I'll never step out that door alive."

She indicated a red pane of glass on the instrument panel. "If that
glows, they're approaching the ship. Be ready to give them a warning
blast from the rockets."

Barnard thought wistfully of the gun he had left in his hotel room.
"That means I'm here for keeps, too. But you can't go to Pluto. I'll
drop you off at another Martian city--or on some other planet that's on
our route."

"Did you ever operate a space ship?" she asked.

"No, but--"

She shook her head. "Besides, they have agents everywhere. My life
isn't worth a counterfeit milliplatin. So I might just as well go to
Pluto."

Barnard sprang to life as the detector signal glowed deep red. He
leaped to the handles of the rocket jets, prepared to throw out a
warning blast.

There was a pounding on the hull. "Open up, in there! It's the Space
Police!"

"That's Lansfer's voice." Barnard hesitated at the lock. "That means
we're safe--or does it? Is this ship ready to take off?"

"Yes--"

"Then--just on a hunch--get at the control board--"

He closed the inner door of the lock behind him before he opened the
outer. No use silhouetting himself against the lighted interior.

Lansfer almost lost his poker face. "You! You'll get into trouble,
Barnard, if you're not careful. What are you doing here?"

"Guest of Miss Melvin, commander. And you?"

The officer indicated a paper. Barnard noted that his other hand
remained close to his holster.

"We're impounding this ship. The Space Police can't be responsible for
old wrecks endangering human life and limb on the spaceways."

"Very thoughtful of the Space Police all of a sudden," said Barnard.

There were two other patrolmen with Lansfer, he saw. Remish and a
red-haired man he knew to be named Grady. His searching eyes picked
out several shadowy figures lurking at corners of the field. He looked
again at Lansfer.

"You have our word," he said, "that this ship is to be used only as
living quarters by Miss Melvin."

Lansfer stared coolly up at him. "This court order calls for the
_Chicago_ to be delivered immediately into the custody of the sheriff
and auctioned for scrap. You and Miss Melvin will leave it immediately."

Barnard nodded agreeably. "All right, commander. We'll leave--right
now."

Lansfer relaxed. He was about two feet below Barnard, the platform
being that high from the ground. Barnard reached out carefully with his
foot and shoved. The spaceman flew backwards into Grady, and the two of
them crashed to the frozen ground.

Barnard pulled the door swiftly. Lansfer was clawing for his gun and
shouting for Remish to stop them. Remish's gloved fingers fumbled as he
drew and the outer door was closed before he fired. Barnard grinned as
the bullets bounced off the door. That hull was more than tough enough
to handle all the bullets the Space Police could throw at it.

"Get off the ground, Gail," he shouted.

He slammed the inner door of the lock and swayed with the control room
globe as the rockets went into action. The ship jumped forward a few
feet, balked for a moment. Gail threw a lever that opened the shutters.
They saw the three policemen scrambling madly to both sides as the
_Chicago_ started roaring down the field.

They blasted away and left the ground, the police still firing after
them. Barnard clung to a bolted-down chair as they lurched wildly. Gail
pointed the nose up until the ship would have been hanging from its
props, if it had any.

"That's all we needed," said Barnard, sourly. "We're both outlaws
now--fair game for anybody. Our only hope is to break the dope ring.
And Lansfer, if we can."

She looked distastefully at him. "That would make a good story,
wouldn't it? Daring reporter defies police; smashes _neoin_ ring. Of
course, there might be some opposition."

"Which way is Pluto?" he asked, changing the subject.

"I haven't the faintest idea. Hand me that book--the big one--"


                                  IV

Barnard found that space navigation was more complex than he had
thought. He watched in grudging admiration as the girl rejected course
after course. Finally she looked up at him and frowned.

"We have to go sunward--the sun is almost directly between us and
Pluto. We can get there fast, and speed is our best bet to evade the
Space Police. But it'll be dangerous."

"I'll take the chance," said Barnard. "But don't be reckless with your
own life. How many months will it take?"

"About four days."

He stared suspiciously at her. "It took me fourteen days from Earth to
Mars. What's this crate got that the Inner Planets Line hasn't?"

She smiled. "For a great reporter, you don't know much. They could make
the Earth-Mars run in a day--but that's where the danger comes in. If a
rock gets in their path, they have to be traveling slow enough for the
detectors to find it and change the course. That's done automatically,
but we haven't powerful enough detectors yet to handle high speeds."

"Oh, a job for the instrument makers?" Barnard was beginning to realize
his ignorance.

"You could put it that way. The chance of hitting anything big enough
to hurt a space ship is small, of course, but with hundreds of ships in
space, there would be a lot of wrecks if they all went as fast as we're
going to go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They plunged almost directly into the sun, nose forward to cut down the
radiant energy. Gail sat in a sea of charts and tables, calling out
instructions to Barnard, who was learning to handle the controls. She
kept the rockets blazing, and before many hours had passed they could
almost see the sun growing in size.

In the growing warmth, the reporter dozed off to a restless,
nightmarish sleep. He awoke with a start to find himself soggy with
perspiration, his bones aching. Gail, hunched over her figures, looked
up and grinned impishly.

"Warm?" she asked. "The cooling units are going full blast. The vision
plates are all shuttered, but if you want to look, I've swung dark
glass into place."

She gestured to one of the darkened vision plates, and her fingers slid
to a button that opened the shutters. Barnard looked and closed his
eyes when he saw the monstrous body that was the sun.

"I've seen enough," he assured her. "Where are we?"

"Inside the orbit of Mercury. We'll be closer before we're farther
away."

Barnard studied her. At the most dangerous part of their journey, where
space was filled with cosmic debris plunging into the sun, she had lost
her hunted look and worked with a graceful nonchalance. She seemed
actually to be enjoying the whole thing.

The murderous forces of radiant energy pounded at and through the
heavily insulated hulls. Barnard mopped his sweat-soaked face and
waited for the metal of the space ship to ignite. He stared at the girl
and wondered how she could be so happy and poised, though she was as
bedraggled as he was. Was her mind gone, too?

He decided so when she told him, much later:

"Congratulations, Mr. Barnard. Right now you and I are closer to the
sun than any other human beings ever have been--"

He studied her face.

She stared through the darkened glass into the inferno. "Except," she
said thoughtfully, "for a few unfortunate expeditions that fell into
it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Then they were starting to recede. The _Chicago_ was inside the
eccentric orbit of Vulcan, and starting to plunge away from the sun.
The tremendous velocity they had been building up was far more powerful
than the titanic pull of the sun's gravitational field. Gradually, the
temperature went down to a cool 100 degrees, and the two humans, limp
and worn, took turns catnapping.

Barnard lugged can after can of fuel for the tanks. The motors pounded
constantly, building up greater and greater velocity. At timed
intervals, Gail took sights of the visible planets to check their speed.

Their course curved far above the plane of the ecliptic. No passage
through the asteroid belt at this speed!

That was Gail's main worry. "We're veering out of the crowded belt, but
there're stray asteroids far from the ecliptic plane. If we pass that
region, we'll be in fairly empty space, and more or less safe, except
for the Space Police."

Barnard raised his eyebrows. "Space Police? How could they trace us at
this speed?"

"We're as obvious as a green spaced Venusian in New York," she told
him. "It's the speed--we're actually tearing up space. Lansfer's
instruments could pick us out from a hundred million miles. But that's
a lot of room." She glanced slyly at him. "Now you can write science
articles for the Sunday supplements."

"Lay off me," he begged. His questing fingers found a cigarette as the
clock ticked over to the hour. Smokes were rationed in space. He lit up
and drew smoke into his hungry lungs, then passed the cigarette to Gail.

"At least," he said, "I have a job to do on Pluto, which is more than
you can say. What are you going there for?"

She passed the cigarette back.

"It seemed like a good idea at the time," she said.

Barnard stared silently at her. She looked strangely happy, plunging
toward God-knew-what evils on far Pluto! He felt suddenly disgusted
with the whole affair. They were two fools, defying the Space Police
for the right to seek certain death.

"Gail," he said, "don't go through with it. Slow the ship down and get
off at the nearest human settlement--one of the Jovian moons, or Titan.
I can handle this ship now. My syndicate will pay--"

The entire universe exploded then. He pounded brutally into the concave
walls, whirling end over end as the ship spun madly out of control.
His head crashed as the spherical control room escaped its gyroscopes
and he fought desperately against crushing blackness. Gail--was she
mangled, killed? There was a senseless spinning, and then it was
dark ... dark....

       *       *       *       *       *

He fought his way out of the blackness. Something was searing his
throat ... he coughed in agony and the shock brought him partly to his
senses.

Gail was pouring brandy into him. He saw her by the hard glare of the
battery-run light. She was bruised and her coveralls were torn, but she
was alive.

He came to his feet and gripped her arms. "Gail?"

Then he stopped. Her eyes were pained and misting. She swayed and
collapsed in his arms.

For a moment he was frantic. What to do? He carried her to her room,
made her comfortable. Fervently, he hoped no bones were broken. But
after a few minutes she opened her eyes and made a face at him.

"I'm not hurt," she said dreamily. "Just a sissy. Go and see what
happened."

Gratefully, he watched her relax. He rubbed his hands thoughtfully and
studied the damage in the control room. The meteor couldn't have hit
very hard--they would have been killed without knowing it. A mere graze!

He reached out fearfully and cut off the blazing rockets. The vision
plates were blackened--no way of knowing which way they were going.

That was his first job, then--to unshutter the vision plates. He
reviewed his knowledge of the mechanism. Evidently the master switch
that controlled them all had been short-circuited. The switch was in
the very tail of the ship. He crawled through the hold and into the
tiny compartment in the tail.

His pocket flash picked out the switch, and he made with the screw
driver. A few seconds later he looked proudly through the opened plate,
feeling like a master mechanic.

But he didn't feel so happy when he saw a swifter-moving point of light
in the star-filled sky.

A spaceship was closing in on the _Chicago_. And goose pimples rose on
his arms when he recognized it as the police ship of Commander Lansfer.

He had to get back to the control room.

The police ship was coming in at a half mile a second, relative to
them. What both ships were doing relative to the system he didn't know,
or care. On his hands and knees in the close cubby, he scrambled around
to get back to the control room. But already it was too late.

Invisible beams of magnetic force leaped into life between the two
vessels, as the law ship clamped down with its Duvals. Barnard was
pitched heavily forward as the beams seized the _Chicago_. His head
crashed into something hard, and he fell into a relaxed bundle.


                                   V

It was cold, and he was beating his way out of a frozen death. He
fought his way up from the floor, a sluggish chill in the marrow of his
bones. Frigid ... and he was sinking back.

Remembrance shocked him into wakefulness. He stared from the port
before his face. The police ship was there, clamped by invisible forces
to the _Chicago_. Dully, he watched the fore rockets blasting for
deceleration.

Deceleration--?

That brought him to frantic life. Were they nearing Pluto? How long had
he been out? And--why was it so cold?

His teeth and knees still chattering, he wriggled down the narrow
passage, pushed his light before him into the room where he had left
Gail. He stared wildly.

She was gone.

Then the police had come aboard while he was unconscious and taken her
aboard their vessel.

Back in the control room, he stood helplessly for a few seconds, his
mind starting to black out again. No power--the ship was leaking its
heat into space. His numbed fingers found the right switches. Heat
started to seep into the room, and life seemed to flow back into his
body.

But Gail--what of her? His distrust of the solemn-faced Lansfer became
suddenly more intense. He had to find out--and he was separated from
the police ship by fifty feet that might as well have been miles.

There was another way. He fumbled in the medicine kit, snatched the
black bottle labeled "_Espine_." He'd take a pill, even if it killed
him in his weakened condition, and use ESP to find out what went on
aboard the other vessel. He tore the stopper from the container and
turned it upside down over his palm.

Nothing came out.

He cursed the empty bottle fervently, because already the only other
answer was coming to his mind. He almost tried not to think of it. But
this was emergency.

In one of his pockets he found the tiny packages of _neoin_ he had
bought while cultivating the peddlers on Mars.

There was a tiny pinch of gray powder in the paper he tore open. One
gram--a normal dose. Full strength, he was sure--the stuff was seldom
cut.

He hesitated. Even one dose of the drug created a craving for more. He
vowed grimly that this first taste would be his last.

But this made his fight personal. He must destroy the source of _neoin_
in sheer self-defense!

Before the gray powder was past his tonsils, he knew he had taken too
much for a beginner. A fantastic lift, a great self-confidence almost
sent his mind out of the world. Grimly he fought to keep down the giddy
exhilaration, and let his thoughts search for Lansfer's ship.

He had trouble coordinating his thoughts, because of the tendency of
his drugged mind to stray. But he caught the control room of the
police ship.

Carefully, he kept away from the minds of the four people there. There
was an added lift when he perceived Gail, small and defiant, facing
Commander Lansfer.

It was Barnard's first experience in extra-sensory perception. With all
the power of his will, he focussed his thoughts on the scene. Gail was
speaking.

"I tell you," she said, "the reporter is on Earth. He said something
about having a big lead. I took the ship into Earth's atmosphere and he
bailed out in a parachute. I was glad to be rid of him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Barnard hoped that what she said was entirely untrue.

"You say--" Lansfer's face was without expression--"that he forced you
to do this?"

"I said no such thing," Gail told him. "And if you're going to twist my
statements, I'll say nothing more."

Lansfer's palm flicked out and Gail's head reeled. A vivid patch of red
appeared on her cheek. Barnard's fingers tightened around the spongy
arms of his chair.

The commander turned swiftly to Remish and Grady. None of the officers
noticed--but Barnard did--that Gail's fingers were sliding along the
control board.

"Barnard is aboard that ship," Lansfer snapped. "You two couldn't have
searched very thoroughly. This girl is lying--she couldn't possibly
have slowed down enough to let Barnard 'chute to Earth, and still have
come this far."

Remish looked uncertain. "Commander--you're the boss here, but--"

"But what?" Lansfer barked.

Remish's eyes darted briefly to where the red welts stood out on Gail's
cheek. He licked his lips and for a second his gaze met Grady's. For a
moment he hesitated, then faced Lansfer again. He shrugged briefly.

"Never mind," he said. "We'll talk it over at headquarters later."

Lansfer lost some of his poise. He glared at the two patrolmen. "You
two get back to the _Chicago_. Find Barnard and bring him to me!"

Barnard saw Gail's hand hovering over the tiny bar. Suddenly he was
shocked. He realized that the bar controlled the Duvals--the magnetic
beams that pinned the two ships together. Then she had felt his
presence and was waiting for a signal from him. He shouted the thought:

"_No!_"

Swiftly she disobeyed him, and twisted the bar. In almost the same
instant she snatched the gun from Lansfer's holster. She backed away a
step and leveled it at the officer.

"Turn this ship around," she ordered. "We're going back to Mars."

Lansfer's narrowed eyes peered at the control board where she had
disconnected the grapples. He turned to the girl. His voice was flat,
sullen.

"Give me that gun."

"No." She backed away another step and he followed, hand reaching. Her
face became paler. Lansfer stopped and stared into her eyes. His eyes
were compelling, hypnotic. She stood motionless and tried to shake the
effect. Lansfer moved a step closer.

Remish's hand gently removed the gun from her fingers.

Barnard swore disgustedly. Why had Gail cut the grapples? She must have
some fool idea that he could beat the police to Pluto, win out on his
own.

Maybe he could. There were only two little difficulties involved.
First, he didn't know where Pluto was, or how to find it. Second--the
planet was Earth-size, and where on its millions of square miles of
surface was whatever he wanted?

The second problem was partly solved. From Lansfer's mind he had a
vague picture of a vast white sea, trapped in a ring of white mountains
that knifed into a black sky.

From Lansfer's mind--!

Even in his _neoin_ jag, a jolt came to him. How did Lansfer know that?
Frantically, his thoughts speared back to the police ship. But it was
too far now--only confused fragments came.

But one image brought him to his feet, sobered and fearful for Gail's
safety. Wildly he searched space for the magenta blasts of the police
ship's rockets.

Because his extra-sensory perception brought one clear image. In
Lansfer's pocket he had perceived the ancient twentieth century coin he
had given to George Melvin.


                                  VI

His fevered eyes studied the vision plate. Pluto--since they had been
pointing toward it, must be ahead. He held his hand over a button, and
cross hairs appeared on the plate. At the junction of the hairs was
nothing.

But he found a grayish blob larger than the others at the edge of the
plate. Experimentally, he turned in the rockets and headed for it. It
moved steadily to the right, so it must be the planet.

Several hours later he was circling Pluto, searching grimly for the
landmarks. A coating of frozen air covered everything--Pluto's last
snow. Luck was with him, for he had only half-circled the globe when he
saw what he wanted. There was no mistaking the scene. His pulse leaped
as he dived inexpertly down.

Down past the snow sheathed peaks, into a great snow filled valley. He
leveled off over the plain and brought his vessel to the surface in
the thin solar illumination. He didn't know that landing on an airless
planet was a feat for an expert pilot; neither did he realize that he
was landing with blazing rocket jets on frozen air. But the luck of
beginners was with him. He plowed a mile through the icy crust and
jolted to a stop.

In his wake vast masses of freshly vaporized air clouded the valley and
started to freeze again. Barnard's eyebrows lifted when he looked out.

"A snowstorm," he marveled.

He glared at the mountain wall a hundred yards distant. There was a
structure there, of human origin. A squat building from around which
the snow had been cleared.

George Melvin's space suit was too short for him, but he worked into
it. Over the boots he fitted snow shoes. There was no sign of life from
the shack, so he went out the lock and started trudging the hundred
yards.

Inside the space suit, his footsteps were distant crunchings--eerie
misfits in this noiseless dead world! Still there was no indication of
life from the building ahead. He noted that it was flush against the
cliff wall. Was there a cave behind?

A sudden craving for _neoin_ filled him. He cursed and went forward
more grimly. If this was the source of the drug, he must destroy it.

The door was unlocked. He hesitated, then stepped inside cautiously. He
glanced back once. The snow was still falling.

His light revealed a small room. It was bare, except for a few tins of
food and some motor parts. He frowned, wondering. Had he stumbled onto
an innocent government post?

There was a door leading back. Then his guess was right--this was a
cave. He tried the door. It opened smoothly; and he followed his light
in.

There was a corridor. He paused for a moment, an instinctive fear
bringing cold goose pimples. Something was here--something terribly
alien, and terribly deadly. He waited, his heart pounding viciously.

But nothing happened. Slowly he moved forward. On his right was a door.
He reached to open it, but a strange reluctance made him leave it for
the time being and continue on. The corridor ended in stairs, going
down.

He started down, his knees weak. Before he reached the bottom, he saw
what was below, the floor of the great underground room was covered
with a gray powder.

_Neoin!_


                                  VII

Knee deep in it, he stared at the tons of the deathly drug piled around
him. This was it! The cache from which misery and nightmare death was
dispensed to the human race! But what was its origin?

One huge heap of the gray dust rose half way to the twenty-foot ceiling
of the crypt. His eyes caught the tiny disturbance at the peak of the
pile, and followed a thin stream of the falling dust to the ceiling.

The _neoin_ came from above, then. And the door he had passed in the
corridor above must lead to the place where the drug was formed. He
plodded back up the stairs.

Before the door he stopped, that chill fear again speeding his pulse.
A racial fear of something not human, not of Earth, palsied him. He
wanted a dose of _neoin_--

His curse broke the spell and he flung the door open. He was inside,
poking his flash into the distant corners of the huge cave. It must be
two hundred yards to the far wall. The roof was fifty feet above. On
the sloping floor was a film of _neoin_ dust.

In a corner was a rocket motor, turning senselessly. It served no
apparent purpose. But he backed away.

"Nothing here," he murmured. Still the feel of alien life persisted.
Suddenly in an unreasoning panic, he whirled for the door.

And felt himself hurled back.

Cold, slimy fingers seemed to be feeling inside his brain. He struck
out at empty space, his involuntary scream pounding in his ears. The
questing feeler went deeper into him and he staggered helplessly back
until he rested against the cave wall.

A chaotic jumble of thoughts whirled in his semi-consciousness. He felt
that he was George Melvin, who had stowed aboard a ship belonging to a
hard faced police officer.

Ron Barnard fought back with a defiant blast of his will and for
a moment the creeping things stopped. He was suddenly sober, for
he knew that this was where George Melvin had lost his mind. These
creatures--whatever they were--possessed all of George's thoughts.

And those thoughts included Lansfer. Lansfer was the man behind the
_neoin_ organization.

The things were back. He stiffened his knees, made himself rigid
against the wall. Sharp pain lanced through his temples as the weird
struggle continued. Desperately he fought the hungry tentacles that
wiggled into his thought centers.

One after another, he forced back the alien thrusts. But each time, the
creatures took something with them ... some part of him.

He was losing. Soon he would be another George Melvin ... a drooling
idiot. Already he was slipping. The feelers pushed themselves
inexorably in. He noticed vaguely that his light was gone--somehow he
knew that they had drained the juice from his battery. In the dark he
stood swaying, waiting for the end.

Suddenly he was aware that it was light. He gazed dully toward its
source, saw that a silver-helmeted figure was approaching. Lansfer.
The officer's hard face relaxed a little in a short chuckle.

"So you've found my secret, Ron Barnard. And you're wishing you
hadn't--if you still have the wits to wish."

His eyes behind the faceplate were mocking. "My little friends were
hungry. They aren't of this solar system, Barnard--they're true energy
creatures, barely visible if you have good eyes. I was attacked by them
while alone in a patrol ship--fortunate for me that I found out in time
that silver renders them inert."

Barnard's slow moving mind noted the silver covering over Lansfer's
helmet. He found himself on his knees, clutching unintelligently at the
_neoin_ dust on the floor. The struggle in his mind had died out, as if
the creatures had retreated unwillingly before the silver.

"I brought them to this cave," Lansfer went on. "You see the rocket
motor in the corner--they live on energy and for the cost of a little
fuel I get _neoin_ by the ton! _Neoin_ is the waste product of their
life cycle! Matter from energy--with living machines!"

The officer motioned toward the door. His stubby gun was in his hand.
"You'll come back here, Barnard. A human mind is a rare treat for my
helpers. But get out now and let your girl friend see what's happened
to you. The two of you forced my hand. Now I'll have to get rid of
Remish and Grady. It's time for action--my days as a policeman are
over."

His eyes were hungry. "I have gold here, Barnard. And platinum and
radium. _Neoin_ has made me rich. The next step is power--I have enough
to buy Mars and Venus, and next I'll bring _neoin_ to Earth. In a few
years I'll be running the solar system. Wouldn't you like to print
that?"

Dully, Barnard preceded him out. His brain was slow responding, as if
he were drugged. Permanently drugged. But his will seemed left, as if
the energy creatures had been eating away the pillars of his driving
force when they could not beat it down directly.

"Silver in the door," said Lansfer, closing it behind him. "They can't
escape. Keep moving."

Back in the shack, Lansfer motioned him to a corner and peered out.
More snow was falling and three space suited figures were coming
through it. Lansfer touched a switch and machinery began to throb. The
room filled swiftly with air and warmth, and Lansfer removed his helmet
and struggled out of his space suit. Gun in hand, he stood facing the
double doors.

Barnard's gloved fingers were clenched. He gazed dully at his right
palm, saw it filled with _neoin_ he had unwittingly scooped up when
he had clawed wildly in the cave of the energy creatures. He felt the
craving coming back as he stared at it.

Gail came through the lock, followed closely by Remish and Grady. They
stopped when they saw the gun in Lansfer's hand.

"What happens, chief?" demanded Remish. His hand was near his own
holster. "And what is this place?"

"First, drop your guns," Lansfer instructed. "Then take off your space
gear."

The two patrolmen unbuckled their belts. Gail stared at Barnard.

"Ron--they've done it to you!" There was a sob in her voice. "I should
never have got you into this--"

Barnard's eyes focussed stupidly on the girl. His thoughts came slowly.
But the energy creatures had not finished their work--he was marshaling
the mind power he had left, and a sullen anger was growing in him. With
the slyness that often belongs to simple minded people, his gaze went
to the handful of _neoin_, then to Lansfer, measuring the distance.
Eight ... ten feet. He pretended to stagger, came a little closer.

[Illustration: _Barnard's dull eyes swung to the steady weapon._]

Lansfer chuckled contemptfully.

Gail was at his side. He reached out as if to push her away, and the
same motion his hand shot out, releasing the _neoin_ squarely into
Lansfer's face.

       *       *       *       *       *

In that split second, Lansfer's eyes widened in horror. His hands
streaked to his face to keep the gray death from his lips and nostrils.
Remish was across the room, batting the gun from his hands.

While Lansfer still dashed the _neoin_ away from him, Remish and Grady
had guns trained on him.

"Now," said Grady, grimly, "what's this all about, Barnard?"

Barnard told them haltingly. He still had sense enough to realize that
his I.Q. was down about fifty per cent. His career as the top reporter
of the system was done ... all he had left was a grim determination.

He picked up the silver helmet, fitted it over his head.

"Ron--?" Gail's eyes were shocked. "What are you going to do?"

He turned silently, and they followed him to the door of the cave. He
turned to Remish.

"I'm going back in there," he said.

"No!" Gail clutched at his arms. "Don't, Ron--you'll be George all
over again, and I couldn't stand that--"

He bent down and kissed her, then pushed her gently aside. He looked at
Remish.

The policeman hesitated.

"You owe me this much," said Barnard.

"You're putting me on a spot," Remish growled. "But go ahead, if you
must."

As Barnard started to close the door behind him, he was thrown to the
floor by Lansfer's sudden rush. The hard faced policeman threw a bolt
over the door, then dived on Barnard, clutching for the helmet.

The reporter fought back instinctively. His feet went into Lansfer as
the other dived on him. He rose as far as his knees and delivered short
solid punches to the body as Lansfer clawed desperately for the silver
band.

Suddenly Lansfer stiffened with an expression of utter horror and fell
away.

For a minute Barnard watched, building up his own strength. Then he
tore the helmet from his head, hurled it far from him.

"Come on, you devils," he growled. "I want my mind back."

When Barnard dragged Lansfer out of the cave, his eyes were bright, and
a happy grin was on his face. The first thing he saw was Gail, utterly
miserable against a wall of the corridor. The first thing he did was
kiss her amazed face.

"You're the boss now," he told the equally amazed Remish. "If you'll
take a suggestion, let's find Lansfer's hoard and throw all the silver
coins into that cave. That should put an end to the energy creatures."

Remish looked distastefully at the drooling thing that had been Lansfer
and holstered his gun. He nodded.

"And we'll bring the rest of his treasure back to civilization. We can
use it to rehabilitate _neoin_ addicts."

He looked hopefully at Barnard. "When you print this, you won't be too
hard on the Space Police? We could use some favorable publicity--"

Barnard was whispering to Gail. Both were grinning widely. Barnard
turned his grin to Remish.

"We love the Space Police," he assured the officer. "Now, as the
highest official on this planet, you have the power to marry people. If
you'll hurry up, we'll be starting back to Earth on our honeymoon."

He was suddenly thoughtful. "And maybe to do a column or two for the
System News Service!"





End of Project Gutenberg's Mind-Stealers of Pluto, by Joseph Farrell

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MIND-STEALERS OF PLUTO ***

***** This file should be named 63393.txt or 63393.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/3/9/63393/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
