The Project Gutenberg EBook of Coming of the Gods, by Chester Whitehorn

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Coming of the Gods

Author: Chester Whitehorn

Release Date: October 21, 2020 [EBook #63523]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COMING OF THE GODS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          COMING OF THE GODS

                         By CHESTER WHITEHORN

            Never had Mars seen such men as these, for they
           came from black space, carrying weird weapons--to
            fight for a race of which they had never heard.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Ro moved cautiously. He knew the jungles of Mars well, knew the
dangers, the swift death that could come to an unwary traveler. Many
times he had seen fellow Martians die by the razor fangs of Gin, the
swamp snake. Their clear red skin had become blotched and purple, their
eyeballs popped, their faces swollen by the poison that raced through
their veins. And Ro had seen the bones of luckless men vomited from the
mouths of the Droo, the cannibal plants. And others there had been,
some friends of his, who had become game for beasts of prey, or been
swallowed by hungry, sucking pools of quicksand. No, the jungles of
Mars were not to be taken casually, no matter how light in heart one
was at the prospect of seeing home once more.

Ro was returning from the north. He had seen the great villages of
thatched huts, the strange people who lived in these huts instead of
in caves, and wore coverings on their feet and shining rings in their
ears. And having quenched his curiosity about these people and their
villages, he was satisfied to travel home again.

He was a man of the world now, weary of exploring and ready to settle
down. He was anxious to see his family again, his father and mother
and all his brothers and sisters; to sit round a fire with them at the
entrance to their cave and tell of the wondrous places he'd visited.
And, most of all, he wanted to see Na, graceful, dark eyed Na, whose
fair face had disturbed his slumber so often, appearing in his dreams
to call him home.

He breathed a sigh of relief as he reached the jungle's edge. Before
him lay a broad expanse of plain. And far in the distance rose the
great cliffs and the hills that were his home.

His handsome face broadened into a smile and he quickened his pace to a
trot. There was no need for caution now. The dangers on the plain were
few.

The sun beat down on his bare head and back. His red skin glistened.
His thick black hair shone healthily.

Mile after mile fell behind him. His long, well muscled legs carried
him swiftly toward the distant hills. His movements were graceful,
easy, as the loping of Shee, the great cat.

Then, suddenly, he faltered in his stride. He stopped running and,
shielding his eyes from the sun's glare, stared ahead. There was a
figure running toward him. And behind that first figure, a second gave
chase.

For a long moment Ro studied the approaching creatures. Then he gasped
in surprise. The pursued was a young woman, a woman he knew. Na! The
pursuer was a squat, ugly rat man, one of the vicious Oan who lived in
the cliffs.

Ro exclaimed his surprise, then his rage. His handsome face was grim as
he searched the ground with his eyes. When he found what he sought--a
round rock that would fit his palm--he stooped, and snatching up the
missile, he ran forward.

At great speed, he closed the gap between him and the approaching
figures. He could see the rat man plainly now--his fanged, frothy
mouth; furry face and twitching tail. The Oan, however, was too intent
on his prey to notice Ro at first, and when he did, it was too late.
For the young Martian had let fly with the round stone he carried.

The Oan squealed in terror and tried to swerve from his course. The
fear of one who sees approaching death was in his movements and his
cry. He had seen many Oan die because of the strength and accuracy in
the red men's arms.

Despite his frantic contortions, the stone caught him in the side. His
ribs and backbone cracked under the blow. He was dead before he struck
the ground.

With hardly a glance at his fallen foe, Ro ran on to meet the girl. She
fell into his arms and pressed her cheek to his bare shoulder. Her dark
eyes were wet with gladness. Warm tears ran down Ro's arm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Finally Na lifted her beautiful head. She looked timidly at Ro, her
face a mask of respect. The young Martian tried to be stern in meeting
her gaze, as was the custom among the men of his tribe when dealing
with women; but he smiled instead.

"You're home," breathed Na.

"I have traveled far to the north," answered Ro simply, "and seen many
things. And now I have returned for you."

"They must have been great things you saw," Na coaxed.

"Yes, great and many. But that tale can wait. Tell me first how you
came to be playing tag with the Oan."

Na lowered her eyes.

"I was caught in the forest below the cliffs. The Oan spied me and I
ran. The chase was long and tiring. I was almost ready to drop when you
appeared."

"You were alone in the woods!" Ro exclaimed. "Since when do the women
of our tribe travel from the cliffs alone?"

"Since a long time," she answered sadly. Then she cried. And between
sobs she spoke:

"Many weeks ago a great noise came out of the sky. We ran to the mouths
of our caves and looked out, and saw a great sphere of shining metal
landing in the valley below. Many colored fire spat from one end of it.

"The men of our tribe snatched up stones, and holding one in their
hands and one beneath their armpits, they climbed down to battle or
greet our visitors. They had surrounded the sphere and were waiting,
when suddenly an entrance appeared in the metal and two men stepped out.

"They were strange men indeed; white as the foam on water, and clothed
in strange garb from the neck down, even to coverings on their feet.
They made signs of peace--with one hand only, for they carried
weapons of a sort in the other. And the men of our tribe made the
same one-handed sign of peace, for they would not risk dropping their
stones. Then the white men spoke; but their tongue was strange, and our
men signaled that they could not understand. The white men smiled, and
a great miracle took place. Suddenly to our minds came pictures and
words. The white men spoke with their thoughts.

"They came from a place called Earth, they said. And they came in
peace. Our men found they could think very hard and answer back with
their own thoughts. And there was much talk and happiness, for friendly
visitors were always welcome.

"There were two more white ones who came from the sphere. One was a
woman with golden hair, and the other, a man of age, with hair like
silver frost.

"There was a great feast then, and our men showed their skill at
throwing. Then the white men displayed the power of their strange
weapons by pointing them at a tree and causing flame to leap forth to
burn the wood in two. We were indeed glad they came in peace.

"That night we asked them to sleep with us in the caves, but they made
camp in the valley instead. The darkness passed swiftly and silently,
and with the dawn we left our caves to rejoin our new friends. But
everywhere a red man showed himself, he cried out and died by the
flame from the white men's weapons.

"I looked into the valley and saw hundreds of Oan. They had captured
our friends in the night and were using their weapons to attack us.
There was a one-sided battle that lasted three days. Finally, under
cover of night, we were forced to leave the caves. One by one we went,
and those of us who lived still travel alone."

Ro groaned aloud as Na finished her tale. His homecoming was a meeting
with tragedy, instead of a joyful occasion.

"What of my father?" he asked hopefully. "He was a great warrior.
Surely he didn't fall to the Oan?"

"He had no chance to fight," Na answered. "Two of your brothers died
with him on that first morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ro squared his shoulders and set his jaw. He wiped a hint of tears from
his eyes.

"They shall pay," he murmured, and started off toward the cliffs again.

Na trailed behind him. Her face was grave with concern.

"They are very many," she said.

"Then there will be more to kill," answered Ro without turning.

"They have the weapons of the white ones."

"And the white ones, as well. They probably keep them alive to repair
the weapons if they become useless. But when I have slain a few Oan, I
will set the white ones free. They will help me to make more weapons.
Together we will fight the rat men."

Na smiled. Ro was angry, but anger did not make him blind. He would
make a good mate.

The sun was setting when the two Martians reached the cliffs. Below
them was the valley in which lay the metal sphere. Ro could see it
dimly outlined in the shadows, as Na had said. A distance away, in
another clearing, he could see many Oan, flitting ghost-like from place
to place.

There were no fires, for the Oan were more beast than man and feared
flame; but Ro could make out four prone figures. They appeared to
be white blots in the dimness. One had long, golden hair, like spun
sunbeams; another's head was covered with a thatch like a cap of snow
on a mountain peak.

"You say they came from a place called Earth?" Ro asked Na in wonder.

"They traveled through space in their 'ship,'" Na answered. "They
called themselves an expedition."

Ro was silent then. In a short time it would be dark enough to go down
into the valley. When he had rescued the white ones, he would learn
more about them.

He turned away from the valley to study Na. She was very beautiful.
Her dark eyes seemed to sparkle and her hair shone in the twilight. He
understood why she had crept into his dreams.

The darkness settled quickly. Soon Ro could barely make out the girl's
features. It was time for him to leave.

He took a pouch from his waist and shook out a gold arm band. This he
clasped on Na's wrist.

"All men will know now that you are the mate of Ro," he whispered. And
he kissed her, as was the custom of his tribe when a man took a wife.

Without another word he disappeared over the edge of the cliff. They
had already made plans for their next meeting. There was no need for a
prolonged farewell. They would be together soon--on the far side of the
cliff--if all went well.

In his left hand and under his armpit Ro carried stones. They were of a
good weight and would make short work of any Oan who was foolish enough
to cross his path.

His right arm he kept free for climbing. His fingers found crevices
to hold to in the almost smooth wall. His toes seemed to have eyes to
pierce the darkness in finding footholds.

       *       *       *       *       *

The climb was long and dangerous. Ro's skin glistened with sweat.
He had lived in the cliffs all his life, and had made many perilous
climbs, but never one on so dark a night. It seemed an eternity before
he rested at the bottom.

Feeling his way cautiously, he moved toward the camp. He could sense
the presence of many Oan close by. The hair at the base of his neck
prickled. He prayed he wouldn't be seen. An alarm now would spoil his
plan.

Ahead of him, he saw a clearing. That would be his destination. On
the far side he would find the white ones. He took the stone from his
armpit and moved on.

Suddenly he halted. A dim figure approached. It was one of the Oan, a
guard. He was coming straight at Ro. The young Martian shrank back.

"The rat men have eyes to cut the night." It was a memory of his
mother's voice. She had spoken those words when he was a child, to keep
him from straying too far.

The Oan was only a few feet away now, but his eyes were not cutting
the night. Ro could see his large ears, hear his twitching tail. In a
moment the beast would stumble over him.

Like a phantom, Ro arose from his crouch. The rat man was startled,
frozen with fear. Ro drove his right arm around. The stone in his hand
cracked the Oan's skull like an eggshell. Ro caught the body as it
fell, lowered it noiselessly to the ground.

Breathing more easily, Ro moved on. He reached the edge of the small
clearing without making a sound. Strewn on the ground were shapeless
heaps. They would be the slumbering rat men. Ro suppressed an urge to
spring amongst them and slay them as they slept.

He lay flat on his stomach and inched his way ahead. It was slow work,
but safer. When a sound reached his ears he drew himself together and
feigned sleep. In the dusk he appeared no different than the others.

His chest was scratched in a thousand places when he reached the far
side, but he felt no pain. His heart was singing within him. His job
was almost simple now. The difficult part was done.

Straining his eyes, he caught sight of a golden mass some feet away.
Crouching low, he darted toward it. In a moment his outstretched hands
contacted a soft body. It seemed to shrink from his touch. A tiny gasp
reached his ears.

"Be still," he thought. He remembered Na's words: '_We spoke with our
thoughts._' "Be still. I've come to free you." And then, because it
seemed so futile, he whispered the words aloud.

Then his mind seemed to grow light, as though someone was sharing the
weight of his brain. An urgent message to hurry--hurry reached him. It
was as though he was _feeling_ words, words spoken in the light, sweet
voice of a girl. Pictures that were not actually pictures entered his
mind. Waves of thought that took no definite form held a plain meaning.

His groping hands found the girl's arm and moved down to the strips of
hide that bound her wrists. He fumbled impatiently with the heavy knots.

"Don't move when you are free," he warned the girl as he worked. "I
must release the others first. When all is ready I will give a signal
with my thoughts and you will follow me."

Once again his mind grew light. The girl's thoughts assured him she
would follow his instructions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time passed quickly. To Ro, it seemed that his fingers were all thumbs.
His breathing was heavy as he struggled with the knots. But finally the
golden-haired girl was free.

Ro was more confident as he moved to untie the others. He worked more
easily as each came free and he started on the next.

When they were ready, Ro signaled the four white people to follow him.
They rose quietly and trailed him into the woods. The girl whispered
something to one of the men. Ro turned and glared at her through the
shadows.

The progress they made was slow, but gradually the distance between
them and Oan camp grew. Ro increased his pace when silence was no
longer necessary. The four white people stumbled ahead more quickly.

"We journey out of the valley and around the face of the cliffs," Ro
told them. "After a short while, we will meet Na."

"Who is Na?" asked the girl.

"She is the one I have chosen for my mate," Ro answered.

The white girl was silent. They traveled quite a distance without
communicating. Each was busy with his own thoughts.

Finally the man with the silver hair asked, "Why did you risk your life
to rescue us?"

"With your help I will avenge the death of my father and brothers and
the men of my tribe."

He stopped walking and stared around him for a landmark. They had
traveled far along the foot of the cliff. According to the plan Na
should have met them minutes ago.

Then he gave a glad cry. Squinting ahead he saw an approaching figure.
It was--His cry took on a note of alarm. The figure was bent low
under the weight of a burden. It was a rat man, and slung across his
shoulders was a girl.

Ro's body tensed and quivered. A low growl issued from deep in his
throat. He charged forward.

The Oan saw him coming and straightened, allowing the girl to fall. He
set his twisted legs and bared his fangs. The fur on his back stood out
straight as he prepared to meet the young Martian's attack.

Ro struck his foe head on. They went down in a frenzied bundle of fury.
The rat man's tail lashed out to twist around Ro's neck. With frantic
strength, Ro tore it away before it could tighten.

Ignoring the Oan's slashing teeth, the young Martian pounded heavy
fists into his soft stomach. Suddenly shifting his attack, Ro wrapped
his legs around the rat man's waist. His hands caught a furry throat
and tightened.

Over and over they rolled. The Oan clawed urgently at the Martian's
choking fingers. His chest made strange noises as it pleaded for the
air that would give it life. But Ro's hands were bands of steel,
tightening, ever tightening their deadly grip.

Then, as suddenly as it had started, it was over. The rat man quivered
and lay still.

Ro dismounted the limp body. His face wore a wildly triumphant
expression. It changed as he remembered the girl. He ran to her side.

Na was just opening her eyes. She stared around her fearfully, then
smiled as she recognized Ro. The young Martian breathed a sigh of
relief.

Na turned her head and saw the body of the rat man. She shuddered.

"I was coming down the side of the mountain," she said. "I saw him
standing at the foot. The shadows were deceiving. I thought it was you.
It wasn't until too late that I discovered my mistake."

Ro gathered the girl in his arms. He spoke softly to her to help her
forget.

       *       *       *       *       *

When she had recovered from her shock, the small group traveled on. Ro
led them about a mile further along the base of the cliff, then up, to
a cleverly concealed cave.

"We will stay here," he told the others, "until we are ready to attack
the Oan."

"But there are only six of us," one of the white men protested. "There
are hundreds of the beasts. We wouldn't have a chance."

Ro smiled.

"We will speak of that when it is dawn again," he said with his
thoughts. "Now we must rest."

He sat in a corner of the cave and leaned back against the wall. His
eyes were half shut and he pretended to doze. Actually he was studying
the white ones.

The man with the silver hair seemed very old and weak, but very wise.
The other men had hair as black as any Martian's, but their skin was
pure white. They were handsome, Ro thought, in a barbaric sort of way.
One was lean and determined, the other, equally determined, but stouter
and less impressive. Ro then centered his attention on the girl. Her
golden hair gleamed proudly, even in the dusk. She was very beautiful,
almost as lovely as Na.

"Tell me," he asked suddenly, "where is this strange place you come
from? And how is it that you can speak and cause others to speak with
their minds?"

It was the old man who answered.

"We come from a place called Earth, many millions of miles away
through space. My daughter, Charlotte, my two assistants, Carlson--"
the lean man nodded--"Grimm--" the stouter man acknowledged the
introduction--"and myself are an expedition. We came here to Mars to
study."

Ro introduced himself and Na.

"What manner of a place is this Earth?" he asked, after the formalities.

"Our part of Earth, America, is a great country. Our cities are built
of steel and stone, and we travel about in space boats. Now tell me,
what is it like here on Mars? Surely the whole planet isn't wilderness.
What year is it?"

"You have seen what it is like here," Ro answered. "As for 'year,' I
don't understand."

"A year is a measure of time," the old man explained. "When we left
Earth it was the year twenty-two hundred."

"We have nothing like that here," said Ro, still puzzled. "But tell me,
about this speaking with the mind. Perhaps I shall understand that."

"It's simple telepathy. We have mastered the science on Earth. It takes
study from childhood, but once you have mastered the art, it is quite
simple to transmit or receive thoughts from anyone. A mere matter of
concentration. We--who speak different tongues--understand each other
because of action we have in mind as we speak. We want the other to
walk, we think of the other walking. A picture is transmitted and
understood. It is a message in a Universal language."

Ro sighed.

"I am afraid we are very backward here on Mars," he said wearily. "I
would like to learn more, but we must sleep now. Tomorrow will be a
very busy day."

Ro slipped his arm about Na's shoulder and drew her closer. With their
heads together they slept.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ro awakened with the dawn. He was startled to find that Na had left his
side. He rose quickly and strode to the mouth of the cave.

Na met him at the entrance. She was returning from a clump of trees
a short distance away. Her arms were loaded with Manno, the fruit of
Mars, and clusters of wild berries and grapes.

"You see," she said, "I will make you a good mate. Our table will be
well provided for."

"You will make no mate at all," Ro said sternly, "and there will be no
table if you wander off. Your next meeting with the Oan may not be so
fortunate."

He glared at her for a moment, then smiled and helped her with her
burden.

The others in the cave awakened. Ro noticed that Charlotte had slept
beside Carlson, but moved away shyly now that it was daylight. He
noticed, too, that Grimm was seeing the same thing and seemed annoyed.

Ro smiled. These young white men were no different than Martians where
a girl was concerned.

When they had finished breakfast, they sat around the floor of the cave
and spoke.

It was Carlson who asked, "How do you expect the six of us to attack
the rat men?"

"The Oan are cowards," Ro answered. "They are brave only because they
have your weapons. But now that you are free, you can make more of
these sticks that shoot fire."

Grimm laughed.

"It takes intricate machinery to construct a ray gun," he said. "Here
in this wilderness we have sticks and stones to work with."

Ro sprang to his feet to tower above the man. His handsome face was
twisted in anger.

"You're lying," he shouted aloud, forgetting that the white man
couldn't understand his words. "You're lying because you are afraid.
You refuse to help me avenge my people because you are more of a coward
than the Oan."

Grimm climbed to his feet and backed away. Ro advanced on him, his
fists clenched.

The old man also rose. He placed a restraining hand on Ro's arm.

"He's lying," said Ro with his thoughts.

"Tell him I'm speaking the truth, professor," said Grimm aloud.

The professor repeated Grimm's words with his thoughts. "It would be
impossible to make new guns here," he said. "But there is another way.
I have thought about it all night."

Ro turned quickly.

"What is it?" he demanded.

"The space sphere. There are weapons on our ship that are greater
than ray guns. With those we could defeat the rat men." The professor
shrugged, turned away. "But how could we get into the ship? It is too
well guarded."

Ro fell silent. He walked to the mouth of the cave and stared out. When
he turned back to the others, his attention was centered on Na.

"Perhaps the attraction you seem to hold for the Oan can be put to
good use," he said aloud. "The sphere is a distance away from the Oan
camp. All of the rat men cannot be guarding it. Perhaps, by revealing
yourself, you can lure the guards away from their post."

He repeated his plan to the others.

"But they'll kill her," gasped Charlotte.

"She will be a woman alone," said Ro. "The Oan prefer to capture women
when they can."

"Then she'll be captured," the professor said. "It's much too risky."

Ro laughed.

"Do you think I will let her go alone? I will be close by. Na can lead
the rat men through a narrow part of the valley. I will be above on the
cliffs, waiting to pelt them with stones. Carlson or Grimm can be with
me to roll an avalanche of rocks on their heads.

"In the meantime, you can take over the unguarded sphere. The rest will
be easy."

The professor smacked his fist into his palm.

"It might work at that. Grimm can go with you. Carlson and Charlotte
will go with me."

"Why me?" Grimm demanded. "Why not Carlson? Or are you saving him for
your daughter?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Carlson grabbed Grimm by the shoulder and spun him around. He drove a
hard fist into the stout man's face.

Grimm stumbled backward. He fell at the cave's entrance. His hand,
sprawled behind him to stop his fall, closed over a rock. He flung it
at Carlson from a sitting position. It caught Carlson in the shoulder.

Gritting his teeth, Carlson charged at Grimm. But Ro moved more
swiftly. He caught the white man and forced him back.

"This is no time for fighting," he said. "When the Oan are defeated you
can kill each other. But not until then."

Grimm brushed himself off as he got to his feet

"Okay," he sneered. "I'll go with the red man. But when we meet again,
it will be a different story."

Carlson turned to Ro.

"I'll go with you," he said. "Grimm can go with Charlotte and the
professor."

When they had detailed their plan, the party left the cave. Ro led them
into the thickest part of the forest and toward the Oan camp.

They moved swiftly. Before long they were at the narrow entrance to the
valley. It was about a hundred yards long and twenty feet wide. The
walls of the cliff rose almost straight up on both sides.

"We leave you here," said Ro to the professor. "Na will lead you to the
sphere. She will remain hidden until you have circled away from her.
Then she will reveal herself."

Ro looked at Na for a long moment before they parted. He grew very
proud of what he saw. There was no fear in her eyes. Her small chin was
firm.

He turned to Carlson. The young Earthman was looking at Charlotte in
much the same way.

"Come on," Ro said. "If we spend the rest of the morning here, the Oan
will try some strategy of their own."

Carlson seemed to come out of a trance. He swung around to trail Ro up
the sloping part of the mountain. They climbed in silence.

Once Ro stopped to look down into the valley. But Na and the others
were gone. He felt a pang of regret as he turned to move upward.

When they had reached the top, he and Carlson set to work piling rocks
and boulders at the edge of the cliff. They chose the point directly
over the narrowest part of the valley. If all went well, the Oan would
be trapped. They would die under a hailstorm of rock.

"You would have liked a more tender goodbye with Charlotte," Ro said to
Carlson as they worked. "Was it fear of Grimm that prevented it?"

Carlson straightened. He weighed Ro's words before answering. Finally
he said, "I didn't want to make trouble. It was a bad time, and
senseless, besides. Charlotte and I are planning to be married when we
return to America. It's not as though Grimm was still in the running.
I'm sure he'll see reason when we tell him. It's foolish to be enemies."

"Why don't you take her for your wife here on Mars? That would end the
trouble completely."

Carlson seemed surprised.

"It wouldn't be legal. Who would perform the ceremony?"

Ro seemed puzzled, then he laughed.

"Last night I thought that we on Mars are backward. Now I'm not so
sure. When we find our mates here, we take her. There is no one to
speak of 'legal' or 'ceremony.' After all, it's a personal matter. Who
can tell us whether it is 'legal' or not? What better ceremony than a
kiss and a promise?" He bent back to his work chuckling.

"I could argue the point," Carlson laughed. "I could tell you about a
place called Hollywood. Marriage and divorce is bad enough there. Under
your system, it would really be a mess. But I won't say anything. Here
on Mars your kiss and a promise is probably as binding as any ceremony."

Ro didn't speak. He didn't concentrate and transmit his thoughts,
but kept them to himself. The pictures he'd received from Carlson
were confusing. The business at hand was more grim and important than
untangling the puzzle.

       *       *       *       *       *

They finished their work and seated themselves close to the edge of
the cliff. Carlson was impatient. The inactivity rasped on his nerves.
Ro stared anxiously at the spot where Na would make her appearance.
The waiting was hard for him, too. Pictures of the girl stumbling and
being caught in her chase with the rat men flashed through his mind.
He flinched at what would happen then. It would cost, not only his own
life, but the lives of those who had gone to the sphere.

Suddenly his fears were wiped away. Na appeared at the point he
watched. She burst from the woods, running swiftly. A few seconds
later, five rat men came into sight. One of them carried a ray gun.

The running figures looked tiny from the height of the cliff. They
would make very poor targets. But a glance at the narrow point below
reassured Ro. Even if the stones went wild, they would still land in
that small area. There was no chance of their missing.

Na had entered the narrow strip. She seemed to be tiring. The rat men
gained. Ro bit his lower lip and clutched the stones in his hands more
tightly. Carlson crouched behind the larger rocks and boulders, ready
to roll them over the ledge.

The rat men entered the pass.

Na had already passed below and was almost to the end, when she
stumbled. Her head struck the hard ground as she pitched forward and
she lay still.

Ro's heart leaped in his breast.

"Now!" he shouted, and let fly with one of his stones.

The missile left his hand with terrific speed. All the frantic strength
in his arm was behind it. It flew straight to its mark. The Oan
carrying the ray gun dropped like a log.

Carlson shoved the heaviest boulders off the ledge. He worked
furiously, moving from one to the next. They fell like a thunderclap on
the rat men below.

But Ro had given the signal too late. Three of the Oan were crushed
under the barrage. But one moved too swiftly. He passed under the
falling stones unharmed and raced toward the fallen Na.

Ro drew back his arm. His pounding heart made it difficult to aim. The
stone left his hand in a powerful sweep, but went wild.

The rat man was less than thirty feet from Na. When he reached her it
would be too late.

Ro snatched up another stone. He forced himself to be calm as he took
deliberate aim. He made the throw smoothly.

The stone sped from his hand. It streaked down on the racing Oan and
found its mark in the small of his back. The rat man threw up his arms
and collapsed a few feet from his goal.

Carlson pounded Ro's back jubilantly. The young Martian smiled at the
Earthman's enthusiasm. Then, quieting the elation he felt, he grew
serious.

"Perhaps our friends have not fared so well," he said with his
thoughts. "If we find that they have succeeded, we will have real cause
to celebrate."

Carlson sobered.

"If only they have succeeded," he said aloud. "If Charlotte--"

Ro couldn't understand the words, but Carlson's feelings were clear. He
could understand that the Earthman would be anxious about Charlotte.

He placed his hand on Carlson's shoulder in a comradely gesture.

"I have a feeling that all is well," he said, wondering how true his
thought would prove.

       *       *       *       *       *

The two men left the ledge and retraced their steps back to the valley.
When they reached the foot of the cliff, Na was standing there waiting
for them. Ro took her in his arms.

"My stumbling princess," he sighed. "I don't know how you would exist
without me."

"I would fare very well," she answered, feigning haughtiness. "I only
get myself in trouble to let you enjoy being a hero."

A thought transmitted by Carlson interrupted their talk.

"We must hurry. They may need us." He had retrieved the ray gun the rat
man had carried and was fingering the trigger impatiently. "They have
only two of these now," he said, "but they will do plenty of damage."

They set off in the direction of the sphere. Ro carried a stone in
either hand, ready for instant use.

Carlson urged them constantly to hurry. But Ro needed no urging. He led
them at a fast pace through the forest. In a short while they could see
the gleaming sides of the sphere.

Ro signaled a halt. He moved on alone, cautiously. His eyes strained
ahead for a sign of the enemy, but all was still. Even at the edge of
the clearing, he met silence.

Then the door to the sphere swung wide. Grimm stepped out, smiling
widely. He waved a greeting.

Ro called to Na and Carlson and stepped into the clearing.

Grimm advanced a few steps, still smiling. Then his expression changed
to one of fearful surprise. His eyes were fixed on a spot to Ro's right.

Ro followed his glance. He saw three rat men standing some thirty feet
away.

They were half hidden by foliage, but Ro could see that one carried a
ray gun. He was sighting along the barrel, aiming at Grimm.

Ro drew back the stone in his hand. He knew in that instant, his throw
would be too late.

Grimm threw up his arms instinctively to ward off the burning death he
expected.

But the rat man never fired. A lance of flame seared past Ro from
behind him. The rat man holding the gun screamed in pain as the charge
burned into his chest. He fell forward.

Ro released the rock in his hand, but it went wild. The remaining rat
men fled.

Ro turned to find Carlson holding a smoking gun.

"Lucky I happened to pick this up back there," the Earthman said.

"Very lucky," said Ro. "For Grimm's sake."

"Into the sphere," Grimm called. "Those other two will be bringing the
whole tribe back."

Carlson retrieved the dead rat man's ray gun. Ro ushered Na across the
clearing to the door of the sphere. Na hesitated a bit, then entered
reluctantly. Ro followed, then Grimm and finally Carlson.

"I guess I owe my life to you," Grimm said, as Carlson closed the door.
"And I owe you an apology for the way I acted this morning. I didn't
understand how it was between you and Charlotte. She explained. It was
quite a shock, but I guess I'll live. Apology accepted?"

He extended his hand.

Carlson took it sheepishly.

"Tell me," Ro interrupted, "did you meet any rat men when you took the
sphere?"

Grimm shook his head.

"Those three just now are the first we've seen since we left you. When
we got here the place was deserted. We--"

A cry from another section of the sphere made them turn. It was the
professor's voice.

"Here they come," he shouted. "Hundreds of them."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carlson and Grimm dashed through a doorway in the direction of the
cry. Ro followed, entering a spacious room. He was taken back by the
intricate machinery he saw. There were countless numbers of dials and
levers, gauges and indicators.

Carlson and Grimm took their places at tiny portholes. Ro found an
unoccupied post and peered out. He saw a mass of grey bodies charging
toward the sphere. There were more rat men than he'd ever seen at one
time before. They seemed to be climbing over one another as they raced
from the forest.

A sudden whirring of machinery within the sphere caused Ro to turn from
the porthole. The three Earthmen were working levers and twisting dials
frantically. Additional portholes appeared in the sides of the sphere.
Long tubes rose on folding legs from the floor and slid through the
openings.

"Take aim," the professor shouted in a commanding voice.

The whirring within the sphere grew louder. The floor seemed to quiver
underfoot as giant motors generated energy.

"Fire!"

The entire sphere shuddered. Earthquaking explosions sounded outside as
charges of force left the tubes to expel their power on the grey mass
in the clearing.

Charge after charge was poured into the attacking rat men.

Ro leaped back to the porthole. He saw giant craters opening in the
ground. Hoarse screams of pain and terror reached his ears. Scores of
Oan were literally torn apart. Others disappeared completely. Those of
the attackers who lived retreated in disorder. Ro noticed that one of
the retreating Oan carried a ray gun.

"Cease fire," shouted the professor.

Carlson and Grimm turned from their guns laughing.

"They won't be back," chuckled Grimm. "They'll keep running for a week."

Ro moved silently to the post Carlson had occupied. He picked up the
ray gun the Earthman had laid aside.

"What do you want with that?" asked the professor. "The battle is over.
There won't be any use for ray guns now. We've beaten them."

"How does it work?" Ro asked grimly. His face was hard with
determination.

The professor was puzzled, but explained the workings of the gun. He
finished his explanation with, "But why?"

Ro walked to the door.

"The Oan still have a gun," he said. "When you are gone, they will
return to use it on my people. That must not happen."

He said no more, but left the room. Na and the others heard the door of
the sphere open and slam shut.

Carlson was the first to recover his wits.

"Come on," he said. "He may need help."

The three Earthmen armed themselves and left the ship. They saw Ro
disappear into the wood and took after him.

Ro moved swiftly and silently. He slipped through the underbrush like
an elusive phantom.

Some distance from the sphere he saw a grey shadow running ahead of
him. He drew a bead on the creature and fired. A feeling of power
surged through him as the rat man screamed and died.

He ran on.

Minutes passed before he saw the second Oan. The furry beast died a
flaming death without uttering a sound.

Ahead of him, Ro saw a clearing. Instinctively he swerved from his
course to circle it. He had gone halfway around, when his eyes
caught sight of a twisted, grey body perched on a limb overlooking
the clearing. It was the rat man he sought--the one with the ray
gun, crouching there, waiting for Ro to step unsuspectingly into the
clearing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ro chuckled as he caught the Oan in his sights. He pulled the trigger.
Fire seared from the muzzle of the gun.

The rat man screamed wildly. He crashed down from the tree, leaving a
trail of broken limbs in his wake. His body struck the ground with a
dull thud, thrashed hopelessly for a few seconds, then lay still.

Ro laughed aloud and stepped into the clearing. He was still laughing
when the three Earthmen came upon the scene.

"You should have seen the fool," Ro said. "Perched up there, waiting
for me. What kind of a woodsman did he think I was?"

He stooped and lifted the Oan's gun. His face grew grave as he did so.
When he came erect, he was covering the white men.

"Hold your weapons above your heads," he ordered.

The Earthmen obeyed, puzzled frowns creasing their faces.

"Now back to the sphere," Ro instructed.

Marching in single file they returned to the metal ship. Ro signaled
them to halt then and called to Na. She came into the clearing and
stood at his side.

"All right, into the sphere. All of you."

"But why?" the professor protested. "What have we done? We're your
friends."

"Do as I say," Ro shouted nervously. Then translated his words into the
thoughts.

The professor obeyed, then Grimm. Carlson was the last to enter. Ro
walked to the door behind him.

"Take these guns with you," he said, as the young Earthman entered the
ship. "We will not need them here. My people will return to their homes
now and all will be as it was."

"I understand," said Carlson. "There is no place for us here. We have
brought nothing but trouble." He extended his hand. "I'm sorry."

Ro accepted the Earthman's gesture of friendship. He held the white
hand in his firmly.

"You are a good friend," he said quietly. "Perhaps some day my people
will grow up. Perhaps you will come again and we will meet you on equal
terms. But now, our primitiveness, your science--there can be nothing
but trouble. Make the others understand that. I will always remember
you as friends. I wouldn't want our parting to be in anger."

"They will understand, Ro."

The Earthman closed the ship's door slowly.

Ro walked away from the sphere. He stood at the edge of the clearing,
his arm about Na's shoulder, and watched the many colored fire spit
from the rear of the ship. He and Na waved as the great mass of
metal from another world left the ground. They waved until their
white-skinned visitors had disappeared.

"Perhaps they will come again, when our people have grown up," Ro
whispered sadly.

There was a hint of tears in his eyes.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Coming of the Gods, by Chester Whitehorn

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COMING OF THE GODS ***

***** This file should be named 63523.txt or 63523.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/5/2/63523/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
