The Project Gutenberg EBook of Battlefield in Black, by George A. Whittington

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Battlefield in Black

Author: George A. Whittington

Release Date: November 2, 2020 [EBook #63604]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BATTLEFIELD IN BLACK ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         Battlefield In Black

                       By GEORGE A. WHITTINGTON

                The _Avenger_ was waging its deadliest
          fight--in a battlefield where weapons were useless.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


A lovely image shimmered on the visa-phone screen in Captain Jon
McPartland's cabin. He stood before the instrument, drinking in the
vision with his eyes, and feeling it race through his blood like a
rocket wash. But his square jaw was set in a determined line, and his
big hands were clenched hard.

The vision was Almira Denton, whose hair was a red-gold nebula, whose
eyes were the cool green of Terra itself. To Jon McPartland, she was
much more than just the daughter of his superior, Marshal Denton,
Supreme Commander of all Solar System forces.

A memory of her soft lips had been with him through long weeks of
dangerous outer planet patrol. Now, bringing his sleek battle cruiser,
_Avenger_, homeward, he reached toward her over maximum visa-phone
range. Jon tried to keep anger from his blue eyes as he answered her
suggestion.

"Almira, I don't care if you are a full-blown psychologist now and
aching to qualify for the Congress of Specialists! You can't make a
case report out of me."

"Now, Jon, dear," pleaded the girl softly, "you know how father needs
help with Congress. Our scientists make the laws--but they think of
science, and neglect System Defenses. I could make them listen!"

There was persuasion in her throaty voice that convinced McPartland she
could do exactly that. He knew, too, there was real cause for worry
about System Defense. The planets had long been disarmed. Only the
Congress of Specialists had power to maintain armed forces.

It had neglected bases and fighting units for years. The Space Patrol
alone remained as a weapon for law and safety--and it took all the
fighting heart of Marshal Denton to get purchase credits for that! If
invaders ever struck--

Jon shuddered, his anger slipping away. "I know, Almira," he murmured,
"I know. But why serve me up to the Specialists on a platter? You can
psychoanalyze somebody else."

Almira shook her radiant head in dissent. "The Eligibility Committee
only certifies candidates for election if they present outstanding work.

"An analysis of you would be outstanding because you're a popular hero,
Jon. You've just destroyed a powerful alien ship--been promoted! I'd be
certified. Earth would elect me to Congress!"

       *       *       *       *       *

She stood before the visa-phone in the Denton home. Jon McPartland
visualized her among the Specialists. He could see her slim, perfect
figure in abbreviated formal dress, arresting attention like a shaft of
warm sunshine in a musty vault. The Specialists would listen to her!

An emotion from below his consciousness pushed the realization aside.
He was a man, and this was the woman he loved! "Almira," he said
slowly, "I wouldn't mind if it were someone else--but I can't--I won't
be just a guinea pig to you!"

The girl came closer to the screen, her eyes alight with eagerness.
"Think of what it would mean to the Marshal, Jon--and to the Patrol!
You'd be a perfect subject Jon. You're--well, impulsive, and--"

"Before you studied psychology," he flared, "you called me
quick-tempered, maladjusted!"

McPartland felt the muscles bunch along his jaw, and drew anger from
the memory of a long forgotten quarrel to force back a sick heaviness
in his stomach. "Maybe I am all that, Almira--even atavistic, you said
then. But I'm more than a specimen in a glass box."

He stopped suddenly. Almira's beautiful face had faded from the
visa-phone screen. There had been no cut-off click from her instrument,
but she was gone.

"Almira," Jon called sharply, "Almira." There was no answer. His screen
remained grey and empty. The connection was broken.

McPartland's blue eyes narrowed, as he shot out a big hand to pick up
the intra-ship phone. He jabbed the Radio Room button vigorously.

"Holdern speaking," came the Radio Officer's crisp, efficient voice.

"I was talking to Terra over visa-phone," snapped the Captain. "Did you
cut me?"

"No, sir!" came the instant reply, with a shocked intake of breath.
"The ether is yours, Captain," Holdern added, recovering his dramatic
flair in the next second.

"Then why is my instrument dead?"

"My controls are in order, Sir," said the Radio Officer. "May I send a
machinist's mate to look at the instrument?"

"Carry on, Mister," agreed McPartland, smiling suddenly. Best crew
in the System, he told himself. His officers acted fast, without
hesitation or alibi. "Report progress to the Control Room."

With a last disgusted frown at the visa-phone, McPartland left his
cabin and walked through the narrow corridor to the Control Room. As he
entered, Lieutenant-Commander Clemens turned from the view screen, his
face achieving a masterpiece in worry.

"I was about to inform the Engineer, Sir," said the second-in-command,
"The view screen is not functioning properly."

Engineer McTavish looked up from a chess game with Ray Control Officer
Reynolds. Neither of the two had much to do in the way of duty, now
that the patrol trip was ended. But the Control Room gave them an alert
feeling to spice their chess board feud.

At the Lieutenant-Commander's words, McTavish rose with an alacrity
that suggested a game not going to his liking. He reached the view
screen with McPartland.

Most of the screen seemed normal. The three curved segments,
representing joined fields of space extending around the sides and
aft of the _Avenger_, showed the normal inky, star-studded black. But
it was different with the forward screen. In the center, where the
growing image of their green home planet should have been, was only
blackness--unrelieved emptiness.

"From the looks of that, Mister McTavish," the Captain said sternly,
"you have a few stalemated wires."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Engineer's thin face flushed. His long nose twitched, and his
grey eyes smouldered with professional indignation. "Begging your
pardon, Sir," he objected. "If any coordinates had failed, the entire
screen would blank out--and stay blanked, until I was notified. I
would authorize partial operation only while the condition was being
adjusted, Sir."

"Do you mean," asked Lieutenant-Commander Clemens, his voice dropping
ominously, and one arm gesturing heavily at the empty blotch,
"that--that--"

"That whatever you see is there," finished McTavish. "Or isn't there,"
he amended drily.

Captain McPartland saw Ray Control Officer Roberts get up quietly
from before the chess board, and walk over to his station. Roberts,
his round face impassive, brown eyes thoughtful, slid into the chair
before his microphone, and ran long, slim fingers lovingly over his
calculators.

The Engineer, too, at a nod from Jon moved over to his station.
His grey eyes were soft with pride as they looked over the exact
scale replica of the _Avenger_ on the table before him. Within the
transparent hull, vari-colored filaments glowed with the pulse of the
ship, tracing out the perfect functioning of every mechanism.

McPartland looked at the other, then back at the view screen, and his
full lips tightened. He could feel the tenseness of the three officers
as he spoke into the intra-ship.

"Get me Terra Patrol Base on the ship visa-phone," he ordered Radio
Officer Holdern.

"Sorry, Sir," was the crisp response, "I've been trying to raise Terra
since the machinist's mate found your instrument in perfect order.
Terra doesn't answer!"

Jon's blue eyes hardened. "Get Mars Patrol Base!" he said softly.

As he moved to the visa-phone, Clemens took over the intra-ship,
plugging in his headset. His gloomy expression deepened when the
instrument buzzed immediately.

"Navigation reports integrators acting improperly, Sir," he relayed.
"Radar shows negative from direction of Terra."

"Impossible!" the Captain gasped, face suddenly wooden.

"Lieutenant Parek's exact comment, Sir," Clemens said sadly. He ran a
nervous hand through thinning blond hair beneath his headset. His pale
eyes were expectant.

"Tell Navigation to hold course," McPartland said calmly. Something
in his voice super-charged the already taut atmosphere of the Control
Room, bringing an eager smile to the face of Engineer McTavish.

As though in response, the visa-phone hummed, and its screen glowed.
The image formed was a young officer, an officer with a wisp of blond
mustache and a pale face forced into disciplined blankness by a
straining will.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some of the weariness left the younger man's haunted eyes as he saluted
Captain McPartland. He spoke, his lips moving rapidly, but the words
were gibberish.

"Radio, scramble for ship code," Lieutenant-Commander Clemens said into
the intra-ship. He turned to the Captain. "I hope they have the right
code, Sir."

"--extreme emergency, Sir," came the voice of the officer from Mars
Base. "Deemed it advisable to use code."

"Very commendable, Mister," McPartland acknowledged, tersely. "My
compliments to the Admiral, and may I speak to him at once."

"I'm sorry, Sir," said the other, "the Admiral is at Terra Base with
the major fleet units. I am Lieutenant Browne, commanding."

"Commanding!" exploded Jon. "Then the base must be almost empty!"

"There is only a maintenance crew here," admitted the Lieutenant
wearily, and added defensively, "It's the same at Jupiter Base, Sir.

"All ranking officers are at Terra Base with the battleships, to
receive instruction in the use of new equipment the Specialists have
perfected--You know, Captain, defense against mono-charge rays."

"Yes," groaned McPartland, "I know. The Specialists strip our Bases
to make a big ceremony--of the only thing they've done for the Patrol
in decades. And now--" He squared his broad shoulders, biting back
the rest. "I have an urgent report. Who is ranking officer outside of
Terra?"

"You are, Sir. I was about to radio you, when your call came through."
Browne saluted again and drew himself up rigidly, as he went on:

"I beg to report, Captain, that we have lost radio contact with Terra
Base. Telescopic observation reveals--" his voice faltered and the
lines worked more deeply into his white face--"reveals, Sir, _no trace_
of Terra, Luna, or the stars and planets normally visible--throughout a
spherical area six-hundred-thousand miles in diameter."

The Lieutenant paused. McPartland said nothing. His square jaw was
straining, as though to knot his face into the same hard fist as each
of his great hands.

On the face of Engineer McTavish, the eager smile had frozen. Ray
Control Officer Reynolds let his restless fingers fall motionless on
the table before him. Clemens' small, regular features were swept
blank by an apprehension too intense to be mirrored.

All of them strained to hear Browne's concluding words, in a voice that
was suddenly a whisper: "Within that area is an absolute blackness we
cannot penetrate by radio, radar, or telescope!"

"Thank you, Mister," the Captain acknowledged, "that checks with our
own observation." He was not aware of his own voice, the cold, slow
words could have been spoken by some one else. "Have you contacted
Jupiter Base?"

"Yes, Sir," Lieutenant Browne answered eagerly, "they too agree."

"Very good," McPartland said. "Stand alert. I will contact you later."
His hand reached for the switch.

Alarm leaped into Browne's face. "Captain! Sir! Are there no further
orders? Four Patrol ships are on outer patrol--May I suggest--"

       *       *       *       *       *

McPartland's full lips curved into a tight, mirthless smile, below the
sudden flame in his blue eyes. "Mister, the Fleet is at Terra Base. If
it can't--" He let the sentence stop unfinished, and added quietly:
"This ship can handle more than those light cruisers."

"I beg your pardon, Sir," Lieutenant Browne murmured. A second later,
his image faded from the screen.

From the corner of his eye, Jon saw the others watching the empty
screen, as though waiting for the vanished officer to ask the question
that was in their minds. Lieutenant-Commander Clemens, however, shook
his head mournfully, anticipating his superior's next act, and stepping
aside from the intra-ship.

The Captain reached for the instrument, punching down the lever for
Navigation. "Lieutenant Parek," he said clearly, "take absolute solar
bearings at once--plot a blind course for Terra Base."

He heard McTavish release his breath in a soft satisfied, whistle,
even as Parek's monotonous tenor replied: "Bearings taken, Sir. Course
plotted, Sir. Ready to proceed."

"Good man! He's ahead of us," exclaimed Engineer McTavish, his gray
eyes dancing. "There's a brain behind that sing-song voice, after all!
Begging your pardon, Sir," he added to Jon.

McPartland shot the Engineer a quick glance and nodded. The two of them
shared their pride in the _Avenger_: McTavish in the ship itself, the
Captain in the officers and crew as well. And both of them sensed, with
Clemens and Roberts, that the whole, delicate, balanced entity, the
_Avenger_, would find battle in the blackness ahead.

The Captain turned back to the intra-ship. "Proceed on course, Mister,"
he ordered. "Full speed ahead! Reduce to quarter-speed when we enter
the area. Be prepared to operate ship in absolute lack of visibility!"

"Yes, Sir," the Navigation Officer acknowledged, laconically.

"Begging your pardon, Sir," McTavish said fiercely, as his commanding
officer turned away from the phone, "absolute lack of visibility. We
will have interior lights, Sir--I guarantee it--at least the emergency
circuits."

Clemens turned his pale blue, worried eyes of the Engineer. "Light,
Mister? Light, if we can see it! There's light in and beyond that--that
place ahead, but we can't see it!" he said mournfully.

"Man, there's an interference screen," the Engineer snapped. "Once
we're through it, we'll see what's going on." He jerked his lanky
frame up from his chair suddenly, his thin nose twitching excitedly,
and turned to McPartland. "The screen may play merry havoc with our
machinery, Sir. Perhaps we should hit at full speed and let our
momentum crash us through."

Ray Control Officer Reynolds answered the other's first assertion. "A
spherical interference screen, Mister?" he asked quietly. "Six hundred
thousand miles in diameter! We know how much equipment it takes for a
protective screen around this ship--and that screen doesn't stop light
or radio."

McTavish's grey eyes widened. "Man, that's right! It would be a
fantastic job." But he insisted stubbornly: "As long as there's ether
in there, we'll have light!"

"I don't believe there's ether in there," Jon interposed thoughtfully.
"That's the only answer. Radar waves would be reflected from a screen
of any sort--but our beams simply vanish."

Clemens gasped. "Then the fluorescent markings on our controls--we
won't see them!" he said anxiously. "Light travels through ether--"

"Mister McTavish," McPartland interrupted curtly, "get your men
and rig up a fixture for Lieutenant Parek. He'll have to work by
touch--everything must be at his fingertips."

"Yes, Sir," the Engineer responded briskly. He glanced respectfully at
his commanding officer; McTavish's thin face brightened as he saw the
strength of the Captain's reasoning, and found himself with a job he
could handle. He started out of the control room.

"There won't be much time, Mister," Jon reminded him.

"Begging your pardon, Sir, we won't need much."

With that, the officer was gone.

Again Jon smiled proudly, and turned to where his Lieutenant-Commander
waited. "Mister Clemens, open all switches on the intra-phone, and
order all stations switched open to the control room. You will relay
any necessary messages between stations."

Clemens clamped on his headset, and his hands went over the switches
rapidly. "Attention, all stations. All stations."

"You may inform the men of the situation and our plans," Jon added,
quietly.

Ray Control Officer Reynolds caught his gaze, his large brown eyes
thoughtful. "May I suggest, Sir, a fixture for the ray guns? I can
operate my calculators, and know the results by sound--but the
gunners--"

"Disintegrator rays," Jon reminded him, "travel through ether, as does
light. So do your range-finder beams."

"Of course, Sir!" Reynolds said, his round face startled and dismayed.
He ran his fingers over his keyboards slowly. "That means, Sir, that
we--"

"We will be weaponless in there," McPartland finished grimly. "A
lifeboat with an old fashioned powder cannon and explosive shells could
finish us off." He laughed harshly. "If it could find us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Forward view-screen was entirely blanked out. A line was rapidly
moving along the side screens--a line that erased the stars and drew a
portent for the men in the control room of the _Avenger_.

Jon McPartland's steady gaze flicked from that line back to the empty
forward screen. His blue eyes burned into that emptiness. Somewhere in
there was Terra Base--and at Terra Base was Almira Denton!

Whatever the force that had closed silently around the Earth, it
had stilled the heart of the solar system. The planets waited, Jon
knew, restlessly, breathlessly; for the whole intricate, interworld
civilization drew its life from the great industries of Terra. Let
those industries stop, or be taken over by enemies, and all the planets
would be at the mercy of those enemies.

And the only military power which the Supreme System Congress could
call upon was at Terra Base. McPartland imagined the great space
battleships--cramped into overhaul cradles--the crews dispersed on
leave. Slight chance to get them off in the blackness--even if crews
could be assembled--even if they had any place to go!

But the _Avenger_ had some place to go! McPartland's ship had a
crew--and it could fight!

"We'll fight," Jon told himself savagely. "We'll win! And Almira--if--"
He didn't finish even the thought. Instead he visualized the lovely
oval of her face--with the green eyes set in like twin, glowing
emeralds.

The sudden jarring blast of the forward rockets brought Jon's gaze
around to the side screens. They were almost completely blanked out.
Only a thin slice of normal space remained. They were entering the
area, and Lieutenant Parek was braking.

"Man, that wasn't too soon," McTavish said tensely. Clemens said
nothing, his face carefully set in a harried expression he would retain
even when invisible. Reynolds looked up dejectedly from his desk, his
hand resting protectively on the calculators that would be useless to
them. The Captain moved over to the intra-ship, standing close beside
his Lieutenant-Commander.

They waited silently. Jon was looking at the Engineer's eager smile, as
the retarding rocket blasts died away. McTavish nodded, counting the
drumming explosions from the stern and feeling the vibration of the
ship with an intimate knowledge.

"We're at quarter speed, Sir," he said, as the Captain heard the
Navigation Officer's clear, even voice over the intra-ship speaker:

"Quarter speed, Sir. On course."

The last two words fell into complete blackness. Jon felt the pupils
of his eyes straining, opening for the least trace of light. There was
none. He could hear the slow breathing of the others, and a few low
exclamations through the open switches of the intra-ship.

"Carry on, Lieutenant," he ordered, and let his breath out of his
lungs slowly. "Mister McTavish," he added, "here's something to add to
your technical knowledge: electricity does not need ether--whether it
travels around or within wires."

"Thank you, Sir," came the Engineer's ironic reply like a sound without
origin in the well of blackness that closed in on Jon from every side.
"I had reached the same conclusion, Sir."

"We are running on batteries, Sir," Clemens relayed from beside him.
"The cyclotron has stopped functioning."

"The batteries will be enough, Sir," came the Engineer's voice. "I
arranged an automatic out-in, Sir. I knew electrons couldn't bombard
atoms without ether to travel through."

"Good work, Mister!" said McPartland.

"Thank you, Sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Captain said nothing more. He was listening to the steady drum of
the stern rockets. The explosive charges were fired by electric spark.
All the functional mechanism of the ship was operated electrically.

His ship could travel. They would reach Terra. There was nothing to
do but wait--wait in an emptiness that brought a man to the edge of
insanity.

It was eerie, this feeling of isolation. Only the rocket jets seemed
alive, pushing the _Avenger_ ahead. Jon put out his hand and felt the
phone. It was warm under his fingers. He shivered in the warm air of
the control room. Suddenly he had to speak, to reach the others in this
Stygian pit.

"It must be bitter cold on Terra," he said evenly, "without sunshine,
without heat drawn from the central power beams."

Near him, Clemens sighed heavily. Reynolds' fingers drummed over his
keyboard. It was McTavish who answered:

"Aye, Sir," he said, his words edged with rage, "a few days of this and
Terra would be a frozen wasteland."

McPartland clenched his great fists harder. "There won't be a few
days!" he grated. "Whoever's behind this will want Terra and her
industries--and her people--in working order."

"You think it's human beings?" came the Engineer's question. "I hadn't
thought--"

"It has to be," Jon reasoned. "The timing is perfect, and so is the
strategy. Striking the heart of the Solar System--when the Patrol is
there and helpless. They knew."

"Outlaws." Reynolds commented quietly.

"More than that, man!" exploded McTavish. "There's science here. It
takes science--genius--to eliminate the ether! It's never been done
before!"

"I think you're right, Mister," McPartland said. His words fell with an
inflection as soft and deadly as the impenetrable blackness about them.
"There's science here--and outlaws, armed desperate men who would dare
to try this.

"It's treason. Specialists and outlaws in an unholy alliance, trying
for a _coup d'etat_--for power over the whole system! There'll be a
demand for surrender."

"A black plot," quipped McTavish. But the others could hear the angry
quickening of his breath.

"What choice will the Congress have but surrender?" Clemens asked sadly.

The Captain smashed the flat of his hand against the intra-ship phone
before him. "_WE_ have the choice! We are fighters! There can't be
many of them in the plot--or it would have leaked out. They need the
blackness for protection."

"Your logic is sound, Sir," said the calm voice of the Ray Control
Officer. "But how will we reach them--how will we fight them?"

The others couldn't see McPartland's broad shoulders sag momentarily at
the question. He thought of Almira Denton somewhere in Terra Base, and
bunching muscles snapped his shoulders back.

"We'll find out when we land," he answered slowly.

"That'll be soon, man!" McTavish cried suddenly.

They felt the _Avenger_ lurch, and quiver as port and forward rocket
tubes thundered. Jon looked upward to where the view screens hung.
Those screens should be splashed with a riot of color as the ship
changed course and plunged through the jet wash. But nothing was
visible to Jon's straining eyes. He heard the Engineer explaining:

"Parek has a mechanical timer rigged with an alarm, to tell him when to
correct course."

       *       *       *       *       *

McPartland thought for a moment of the officer down below, sitting
motionless, his hands strapped into fixtures. The empty seconds would
be eternities, while he listened to the monotonous ticking of the
timer. Then the strident alarm would shatter his nerves, and his
fingers search the guide wires for the right controls.

"Can he do it?" Clemens murmured anxiously, as though reading his
commander's thought.

"If he can't, there isn't a Navigator in the System who can," the other
said tightly.

All of them could feel the deck sloping. The _Avenger_ was heading
down. Parek was feeling for Terra Base, balancing the forces of the
retarding and propulsion jets, listening to the beat of the timer.

McTavish, too, was feeling for their goal. "Steady, man, steady,"
he said aloud, his sense attuned to the ship's familiar vibrations.
"Landing speed, now," he added.

All of them braced their legs against the increasing tilt of the floor.
They rocked on their feet, as Parek poured a richer mixture into the
blast tubes.

For a long second the _Avenger_ hung balanced on her jets. Every
spaceman aboard her felt his heart stop. Then the ship settled. There
was a bump. A moment of rocking, and they had landed!

McPartland spoke into the intra-ship phone: "Attention all stations!
All hands remain at their posts until further orders." He turned from
the instrument, trying again to find those about him. "Mister McTavish.
You will go out with me.

"Mister Clemens, you are in command. Take no action without orders from
me--or Marshal Denton himself."

"Very good, Sir," replied the Lieutenant-Commander.

"I am at the door, Sir," said the Engineer.

"Good. Mister Reynolds will close the port behind us. No one is to
enter the ship, Mister Clemens, unless accompanied by myself or the
Marshal. We don't know what the situation is here, and we can't take
chances. Is that clear?"

"Very clear, Sir," Clemens answered, his tone anxious. "Mister Reynolds
will remain at the port, and open it only as instructed."

The three of them groped down the passage. At the port, McPartland
spoke into the blackness: "I've switched on audiphone, Mister Reynolds.
You will open the port only to my voice or that of Marshal Denton."

"Yes, Sir," was the answer, the words spoken almost into his ear.

Jon reached out and found the other's arm. The Captain's fingers
gripped hard, biting into muscle. "We'll soon have the answer to your
question," he said softly. "If the Patrol still holds the Base--"

"Good luck, Sir," replied the Ray Control Officer quietly. "We'll be
waiting to follow you--anywhere."

The Captain found his Engineer in the well of pitch about him. There
was reassurance in the other's tense, firm shoulder. Together, they
went through the port, and heard Reynolds shut it behind them.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sharp rattle of explosions sounded in the distance, off to their
left. "Man!" gasped McTavish, "that sounds like--"

"Like a machine-gun," finished his commander. "An old-fashioned
explosive powder weapon. Ray guns are useless, of course, without
ether."

"There's fighting," the Engineer cried eagerly. A single louder
explosion came from the left. The sound hung in the air, muffled and
distorted. "A grenade," McTavish added mechanically. "It was thrown
into a building--you can tell by the echoes."

"The repair docks," Jon said. "The walls are thick enough."

"That's where the battleships are," the Engineer said dully, his
excitement draining into apprehension. "Who's got them, and who's
attacking? If the plotters have taken the docks and the fleet--"

"The fleet's useless," snapped the Captain, "in this blackness. The
plotters can't man it anyway--they'll want to immobilize it, and keep
it intact until they've won.

"It's the old arsenal I'm thinking about. We need that for--"

"Hist, man!" warned McTavish, suddenly. "There's someone near us."

"Who goes there?" challenged a voice sharply. "You're surrounded, and
you'll get cold steel if you don't surrender."

Jon laughed. "Did you surround the _Avenger_, too, Marshal?" he asked
ironically. "We're standing directly beside it."

He heard a sudden feminine sob of relief, and soft words that sent the
blood throbbing to his temples: "Oh, Jon--Jon darling."

Another voice cut in brusquely: "This is no time for melodramatics,
daughter.

"Jon, I was sure it was you. Who else would try to fly a ship in this?
But we couldn't take chances. We had to find out and warn you before
you blundered into the enemy!"

"We were on the lookout, Sir," the Captain assured him. He could
imagine Marshal Denton; sturdy, tall, handsome. The Marshal's gray eyes
would be flashing there in the blackness, and the snow-white hair piled
on his massive head would make him look more than ever like a noble old
lion.

"What have you to report, Captain?" Denton asked tautly.

Jon told him briefly of their position and actions since he'd first
found communications with Terra cut. As he spoke, a soft hand found
his. Jon slipped his arm about Almira's slim waist, and drew her close.
Her head sank to his shoulder.

He felt her stir with amazement, and her little hands gripped his arms,
as he told the Marshal his suspicions of an alliance between outlaws
and some of the Specialists.

"It might be," murmured Denton. "There's a small bloc that has
consistently opposed requests for credits to enlarge and strengthen the
Patrol."

"What's the situation here, Sir?" McPartland asked eagerly. "Has there
been an ultimatum--a demand for surrender? Where is the Congress?"

"The Specialists are in session," Marshal Denton told him. "You can
imagine the confusion! They're getting nowhere.

"There's been no demand made yet--though I think you're right and one
will come!"

He was silent for a minute. Jon's hands clenched. "What about here at
the Base, Sir?"

"When the darkness fell, the repair crews and guards in the docks were
attacked immediately by men armed with grenades and firearms," Denton
explained. "Most of our personnel there was captured or driven out.

"Fortunately I was here. I armed a squad with firearms from the old
arsenal, and attacked. We've got them pinned in the docks. They can't
get out--and we can't get in."

"The plotters must have overlooked the arsenal," Jon mused aloud, "or
they didn't know about it." He could imagine the tense hurried minutes
that Denton described so calmly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Marshal had thought and moved rapidly. Squads were needed to
lay cables or ropes to mark paths in the blackness. Men were armed
and moved up to attack the docks. It was a brilliant mind that had
surrounded the attackers and organized communications and supplies for
the Patrolmen.

"Congratulations, Sir," McPartland said admiringly, and added soberly,
"I imagine there isn't much news from the rest of Terra."

He heard Marshal Denton sigh heavily. "No, Jon. There's some
communication over old electric-type instruments. In some places
there's rioting. Everywhere, it's cold, and people are frightened and
disorganized. There hasn't been time for lack of food to make itself
felt."

"Stuff could move over the railroads, Sir," cut in McTavish.

"The Specialists have forbidden that," the Marshal told him. "Because
of danger of accidents."

"Accidents!" snapped the Engineer scornfully. "Worrying about accidents
at a time like this!"

Jon spoke impatiently. "May I suggest Sir, that you send a body of
men to Congress. Surround the building, cut outside communications.
When the darkness lifts, search every Congressman, and arrest any
found with firearms. You can bet the plotters will be armed. But the
Congress will have to be suspended until every member is thoroughly
investigated!"

He felt Almira stiffen in his arms, and heard McTavish exclaim: "Good,
man!"

"Suspend the Congress--" Marshal Denton repeated, shocked. "Jon, you--"

"It's an emergency, Sir," McPartland urged. "It's war. You're the
supreme military commander. You have the right to act on your own
initiative whenever the Congress of Specialists cannot function. They
can't function now! You can't let them be stampeded into surrender.
There must be no surrender!"

For a long minute, there was silence in the blackness about him. "I'll
do it, Jon!" Denton said at last. "Captain Wendall!"

A man answered somewhere beyond him. Denton gave swift orders, and the
other moved away. "My men will be at the Congress in five minutes,
Jon," the Marshal said. "Now, just how do you propose to fight this
thing? We have to be right, now, you know. We must win--or be executed
as traitors!"

"I want the _Avenger_ loaded with space torpedoes, Sir. We have
hundreds in the arsenal," McPartland explained. "I believe the logical
place for the ether dissipating machinery would be on the far side of
the moon. The outlaws and their Specialist friends could have worked
there without fear of discovery."

Denton was already giving orders to another officer. "We'll have your
ship loaded in minutes, Captain," he said. "You're right about the
moon--we don't even patrol that side. You intend to--"

"To blast every square inch of its surface," Jon said fiercely, "from
space. Once we destroy the machinery, and lift the blackness, we'll
make short work of the plotters. The _Avenger_ could do the job alone!"

"Good!" said the Marshal. "I hope your theory is sound. We haven't much
time to experiment."

"No," said Almira suddenly. "Millions of people would die in rioting,
accidents, from starvation--if light--if the ether isn't restored! We'd
have to surrender before that happened."

"What would those millions gain," McPartland demanded savagely,
"better than death--under the rule of outlaws and traitors?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Almira pulled away from him. Her fingers slipped from his. "It is
modern," she said coolly, "to preserve life, not throw it away in
hopeless resistance! If you fail, we must surrender."

"I'm afraid she's right, Jon," Marshal Denton's voice added quietly.

Jon's angry retort stopped on his tongue, as a strong hand clamped his
arm. McTavish whispered, somehow finding his Captain's ear: "We'll
still have the _Avenger_, Sir, to fight in--let them surrender who
will."

McPartland fought back his rage. The Engineer was right. It was no
time to debate. It was time to start the fight. "I'll instruct my
men, Marshal Denton," he said, "about the space torpedoes. The things
haven't been used in battle for decades, and they'll be tricky to
handle."

"We've laid a cable line directly to the ship, Sir," an invisible
officer beside him said respectfully. "You can follow it with your
feet."

"Thank you." Jon made his way back, McTavish at his heels, and gave
necessary orders to Reynolds at the port. McTavish went inside to
superintend the loading, and Jon followed the cable to the Marshal's
office.

It was a long, almost silent wait, while the loading went on. There was
little to say. Denton received reports, and issued orders. There was
the murmur of detached voices, and the sound of slow, careful footsteps
in and out of the room.

Jon sat quietly out of the way. Almira was there somewhere. She did not
speak to Jon, although he heard her soft voice in occasional snatches
of conversation with her father. Jon could imagine her, pale with the
strain of this nightmare, lovely, her green eyes angry and scornful.
She was angry, he knew, angry at his will to resist--to waste, as
she thought, blood and lives in a fight that would seem vain if the
darkness weren't lifted. Almira couldn't know what kind of men the
outlaws were. Jon knew; he'd fought them!

Restlessly, he started to rise from the chair. The _Avenger_ should be
ready. His feet sought for the cable on the floor, and his eyes found
it first. It took a full second to realize that dim light had returned.

Denton exclaimed suddenly. The light was growing brighter. Then it was
full daylight, and the Marshal was starting for the door. From outside
came the rattle of firearms, and a hissing that told of many heat rays
flaring into action. The battle for the repair docks!

"Wait, Sir," McPartland cried to the Marshal, "the visa-phone! This
must be it. The plotters have let the ether back to broadcast their
demands."

The news channel button on the visa-phone glowed brightly. Denton
snapped the instrument on, and adjusted the wave length. The screen
glowed--empty! Whoever was broadcasting was not projecting his image.
The voice that spoke was harsh, cruel:

"Citizens of the System," it said bluntly. "The Terra Council for
Freedom has struck for your liberation. We are citizens of Earth who
rise in indignation against the corruption, hypocrisy, and inefficiency
of the Congress of Specialists. Most especially, we rise against the
dictatorship of the man who has used the Congress as his tool--the man
who today holds your alleged representatives prisoner--Marshal Denton,
your ruler, unmasked, at last, in this moment when we strike for your
freedom!"

The voice paused. For a space there was no sound from behind that
glowing, empty screen.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Dictator!" Marshal Denton bellowed. His handsome face colored, and he
took an involuntary half step toward the visa-phone. "Dictator! Of all
the--the--" He choked off the rest, regaining his poise.

"Very nice, Jon," murmured Almira. "Your suggestion certainly played
into their hands."

"One lie is as good as another," he answered. "You should know that
propaganda works on lies." He grinned at them suddenly. "We can guess
from that tirade, that we have the leaders--or some of them imprisoned
with the Congress."

Almira flushed, and was silent. Denton nodded. "Yes, Jon, I think we
have. But how did they communicate with the others."

The Captain shrugged. "Probably telegraph. An instrument could be
hidden there, and wires laid well in advance. Listen--"

From the visa-phone, the hard voice spoke again: "We, the Terra
Council for Freedom demand the immediate surrender of the Congress,
and of Marshal Denton. When Denton has informed the Congress of his
acceptance, our committee will communicate further instructions."

Another long pause, before the speaker concluded. The words were deadly
with menace: "Citizens of Terra, revolt and overthrow your oppressors!
Until they surrender, Terra will remain a dark, silent world. If they
do not surrender, it will become a dead world soon!"

The screen brightened suddenly. A man's head and shoulders formed.
The shoulders were broad, powerful. Above them, the face was strong,
bronzed. There was a scar across one cheek that was known throughout
the system. Black eyes blazed with reckless courage, out of deep
sockets. Full, thick lips curved in a crafty smile.

Jon McPartland clenched his huge fists helplessly. He knew the trail of
murder and robbery behind that animal courage, that scheming smile. The
man was Mark Baron, the most notorious and deadly outlaw still at large!

"Someday," Jon said savagely, "I'll catch you, Baron!"

The outlaw was fading from the view, as the screen dimmed. Outside, the
daylight, too, faded. Blackness crowded in again.

"Very clever," came Almira's voice. "Many people are foolish enough to
think of Mark Baron as a modern Robin Hood."

"He's the worst kind of criminal," Marshal Denton said bitterly. "But
the ridiculous legends about him will help their propaganda. There will
be panic and rioting now!"

"Jon, we can't let this go on! We've got to--"

An officer entered to report. Outside, the firing had dropped off. Ray
guns were again useless. There hadn't been time to recapture the docks.

"The _Avenger_ is ready, Sir," Jon said, when the officer had left.
"We'll take off at once."

"Good luck, Captain," the Marshal said dully. "Almira, will you go--"
He left the question unfinished. Jon knew he was thinking of his
daughter, in a world ruled by men like Mark Baron. "Jon!" The older man
said fiercely, "we can't give up!"

"I'll stay with you, Father," the girl said quietly, refusing Denton's
unspoken plea. "We'll have to be realistic--have to think of the
millions whose lives--" Her soft voice caught. "But, Jon--Jon, good
luck!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Out in space, the starlight was bright and clean. The four men in the
_Avenger's_ control room glued their eyes on the side view screens.
They felt their spirits lift out of the black nightmare that still
covered the forward screen. They were silent, loving the stars and
planets shining back at them, untouched by the evil that blotted out
Terra.

"It's wonderful, man," said McTavish at Jon's shoulder.

McPartland nodded. He was surprised somehow to find the control room
unchanged. Reynolds still sat before his calculators. Clemens stood
beside the intra-ship, headphones clamped over his ears.

The Lieutenant-Commander shuddered with every lurch of the ship. "Those
torpedoes, Sir," he muttered anxiously. "One would blow this ship
apart."

"Don't worry, Mister," the Engineer reassured him, "we'll get rid of
half of them on the moon." He added to McPartland: "We're launching
them from Ray Station Six."

"Good! You'd better get down there, Mister McTavish. We'll be heading
in for the moon--but quick!"

"Yes, Sir." The Engineer left the control room.

As he passed through the door, McPartland heard the even voice of
Lieutenant Parek on the intra-ship: "Course plotted, Sir. Ready to
proceed."

"Proceed," the Captain ordered. "Full speed ahead."

"Full speed?" groaned Clemens, as the ship swung, and they felt the
pull of acceleration. "The vibration, Sir! Those torpedoes."

Jon grinned. "You know you don't give a hang about those torpedoes,
Mister Clemens--just so we land them where they'll do the job."

The Lieutenant-Commander looked pained. "Of course, Sir," he agreed
quickly, and added with an effort: "But full speed with no visibility!"
He started as an excited voice rang in his headset, and automatically
relayed the message McPartland could hear clearly through the still
open switches of the intra-ship: "Radio reports Mars Base has observed
us, and is asking for orders."

"No orders," Jon snapped. "They can't help."

"Lieutenant Browne's compliments, Sir," responded Radio Officer Holdern
eloquently, "and good luck."

His words were followed by low exclamations from stations all over the
ship. The _Avenger_ was again enveloped in the pitchy nightmare. Jon
put his hand on the ship phone, aware that Reynolds' fingers once more
were drumming his calculator keys, and Clemens was breathing quickly,
lightly, in time to the quickened beat of the rocket jets.

There wasn't long to wait this time. The Navigation Officer's
unhurried, emotionless words floated into the Control room: "Ready for
run, Sir."

McTavish was cut in on a three way connection. "Ready to fire
torpedoes, Sir," he said immediately.

"Fire at positions," Jon told him.

He felt the sweep of the ship as she turned, and imagined Parek,
waiting quietly for his alarm.

"Position one," warned the Navigation Officer, paused, and added
flatly, "dead."

"Torpedo away," sang the Engineer from Ray Station 6. "Ready again."

"Position two," Parek responded as his alarm spoke again. "Dead."

"Away," McTavish told him jubilantly. "Ready."

       *       *       *       *       *

The procedure was repeated over and over. Below them, on the cold
dead surface of the moon, carefully plotted explosions cut a swath of
destruction that could destroy any man-made structure ever raised.
Space torpedoes were slow, easy to dodge or hit with a ray beam. They
had been abandoned in modern combat. But they were the most powerful
explosive force ever created by human science.

In the control room there was nothing to hint at success, or failure.
But McPartland knew the torpedoes couldn't be seen or destroyed with
ray beams in this etherless black. Nothing could halt the methodical
blasting. Jon grinned. The super-science of the plotters made it
possible to use an obsolete weapon against them.

"What if some miss the edge?" asked Clemens anxiously. The _Avenger_
was running around the circumference of the satellite, following a
course that drew ever-tighter circles until the last torpedo was
delivered in the exact center.

"The fuse is set to explode them before they reach the Earth,"
McPartland told him. "But none will miss."

There was silence then in the room, except for the unending duet of
Parek and McTavish, coming sharp and clear through the ship phone. The
three officers braced their legs hard against the deck, as the ship
raced at maximum speed into sharper turns.

In the end, the _Avenger_ seemed to whip around almost in its own
length. Jon balanced himself with effort, his stomach rising within
him. He was giddy and nauseated. His eyes strained for something to
focus on, to give him perspective. There was nothing. He was still
blind.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We blasted every foot on that side of the moon," McPartland said
bitterly, "but we didn't get the machinery."

"No, man," agreed McTavish who had come up to the control room again.
"That cursed devil's mantle is still there!"

The Captain's blue eyes burned into the forward screen. "They're
waiting on Terra Base, too," he grated. "But we'd see the break first.
The light would come back at the edges, and--" he stumbled over the
implication of the next words, "work-in-toward-the-center!"

McTavish's grey eyes blazed suddenly. "In toward the center, man!
Right! But the moon isn't at the center!"

Jon was already shouting into the phone: "Observation Officer. Locate
the exact center of that area, in relation to this ship, Terra, and
Luna.

"Navigation! Get bearings from Observation, and plot torpedo course for
dead center."

"This will do it, Sir," shouted the Engineer. "I should have thought of
it, Sir, begging your pardon."

"It may be well protected, Sir," Clemens suggested.

Clemens quietly relayed the report from Observation: "Impossible
to locate exact center, Sir. Whole area is shifting constantly,
unpredictably." He shot a look of glum satisfaction at McTavish, and
added: "The approximate center is on the far side of Terra and Luna,
Sir."

"A space ship," McPartland said savagely, "flying an erratic course. We
don't have much chance finding it with a torpedo."

"The torpedoes can be adjusted for magnetism, Sir," said the Engineer.

McPartland smiled. "If the torpedoes were floating free in space and we
can adjust them to do that--the field would attract them to any ship
within a Spacial Unit.

"Mister McTavish, I want to sow a hundred of them as magnetic space
mines in the approximate center of your devil's mantle."

       *       *       *       *       *

McTavish released his torpedoes into the blackness. One by one they
blasted off. The three in the control room watched their fiery jets
disappear into the emptiness of the forward screen.

"They'll go dead and float," McPartland told Clemens, "and explode on
contact." He clenched his big hands, and laughed harshly. "If we could
only see it!"

"How long, Sir?" Reynolds asked quietly. "Will it be soon enough?"

"It's got to be soon enough," the Captain snapped.

"If Marshal Denton surrenders, Sir," Clemens pointed out, "and the
light is restored, the outlaws would see the mines. They could--"

The Engineer's voice rang in his headset, and he winced. The others
heard McTavish's words over the phone: "The light! The light, man! They
hit one of the torpedoes!"

"We hope--" Clemens said.

Jon's glance swept to the forward screen. Starlight was cutting
into the edges of the blackness. He watched that hated blackness
shrink--shrink, until Terra floated blue and beautiful oh the view
screen.

"Terra," Jon whispered, half to himself, "Whose Terra?"

The Lieutenant-Commander winced again as another voice rang in his
ears, and he relayed without an attempt at pessimism: "Observation
reports wreckage of ship, Sir, and presence of ninety-eight floating
mines."

McPartland spoke into the phone himself: "Navigation. Course for Terra
Base. Pass through mined area. Mister Reynolds would like a little
practice--destroying the extra mines."

Reynolds, a grateful smile on his round face, ran his finger lovingly
over the calculators, and spoke into his mike: "All ray stations. Fire
on command only." The calculators clicked. "Station Six, range--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Almira Denton looked up at Captain Jon McPartland with eyes that were
the soft hue of Terra itself.

"Almira," he said, "about that--that case report."

She smiled, and the curve of her soft lips was as it had been in his
mind since he left on patrol. "Jon darling," she laughed. "We can
forget that. When the Congress gets through ferreting out its traitors,
and hearing your report, father won't need my help with them."

"But I want you to analyze me," he insisted.

"I mean to, Jon," she agreed gently. "But only for my own information."

"And mine, too, darling," he said. "I want you to analyze a dream,"
McPartland said firmly. "I keep seeing a little asteroid--one I
explored when I had a one-man Patrol scout, way back. I keep seeing it
with an atmosphere unit installed, and a Terra-gravity unit. There's a
house, and a beautiful woman with red-gold hair and gorgeous eyes, and
a little boy named Patrick, and a little girl named Kathleen."

He paused, watching her eyes as the puzzlement was replaced by
understanding. "What do you suppose the dream means?" he asked.

"Tell me more about it, Jon," Almira asked softly.





End of Project Gutenberg's Battlefield in Black, by George A. Whittington

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BATTLEFIELD IN BLACK ***

***** This file should be named 63604.txt or 63604.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/6/0/63604/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
