The Project Gutenberg EBook of Out of the Iron Womb!, by Poul Anderson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Out of the Iron Womb!

Author: Poul Anderson

Release Date: November 4, 2020 [EBook #63633]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUT OF THE IRON WOMB! ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         OUT OF THE IRON WOMB!

                           By POUL ANDERSON

              _Behind a pale Venusian mask lay hidden the
            arch-humanist, the anti-tech killer ... one of
             those who needlessly had strewn Malone blood
              across the heavens from Saturn to the sun.
                 Now--on distant Trojan asteroids--the
               rendezvous for death was plainly marked._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The most dangerous is not the outlawed murderer, who only slays men,
but the rebellious philosopher: for he destroys worlds.

Darkness and the chill glitter of stars. Bo Jonsson crouched on a
whirling speck of stone and waited for the man who was coming to kill
him.

There was no horizon. The flying mountain on which he stood was
too small. At his back rose a cliff of jagged rock, losing its own
blackness in the loom of shadows; its teeth ate raggedly across the
Milky Way. Before him, a tumbled igneous wilderness slanted crazily
off, with one long thin crag sticking into the sky like a grotesque
bowsprit.

There was no sound except the thudding of his own heart, the harsh rasp
of his own breath, locked inside the stinking metal skin of his suit.
Otherwise ... no air, no heat, no water or life or work of man, only a
granite nakedness spinning through space out beyond Mars.

Stooping, awkward in the clumsy armor, he put the transparent plastic
of his helmet to the ground. Its cold bit at him even through the
insulating material. He might be able to hear the footsteps of his
murderer conducted through the ground.

Stillness answered him. He gulped a heavy lungful of tainted air
and rose. The other might be miles away yet, or perhaps very close,
catfooting too softly to set up vibrations. A man could do that when
gravity was feeble enough.

The stars blazed with a cruel wintry brilliance, over him, around
him, light-years to fall through emptiness before he reached one. He
had been alone among them before; he had almost thought them friends.
Sometimes, on a long watch, a man found himself talking to Vega or
Spica or dear old Beetle Juice, murmuring what was in him as if the
remote sun could understand. But they didn't care, he saw that now. To
them, he did not exist, and they would shine carelessly long after he
was gone into night.

He had never felt so alone as now, when another man was on the asteroid
with him, hunting him down.

Bo Jonsson looked at the wrench in his hand. It was long and massive,
it would have been heavy on Earth, but it was hardly enough to unscrew
the stars and reset the machinery of a universe gone awry. He smiled
stiffly at the thought. He wanted to laugh too, but checked himself for
fear he wouldn't be able to stop.

_Let's face it_, he told himself. _You're scared. You're scared
sweatless._ He wondered if he had spoken it aloud.

There was plenty of room on the asteroid. At least two hundred square
miles, probably more if you allowed for the rough surface. He could
skulk around, hide ... and suffocate when his tanked air gave out. He
had to be a hunter, too, and track down the other man, before he died.
And if he found his enemy, he would probably die anyway.

He looked about him. Nothing. No sound, no movement, nothing but the
streaming of the constellations as the asteroid spun. Nothing had ever
moved here, since the beginning of time when moltenness congealed into
death. Not till men came and hunted each other.

Slowly he forced himself to move. The thrust of his foot sent him
up, looping over the cliff to drift down like a dead leaf in Earth's
October. Suit, equipment, and his own body, all together, weighed only
a couple of pounds here. It was ghostly, this soundless progress over
fields which had never known life. It was like being dead already.

Bo Jonsson's tongue was dry and thick in his mouth. He wanted to
find his enemy and give up, buy existence at whatever price it would
command. But he couldn't do that. Even if the other man let him do it,
which was doubtful, he couldn't. Johnny Malone was dead.

Maybe that was what had started it all--the death of Johnny Malone.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are numerous reasons for basing on the Trojan asteroids, but
the main one can be given in a single word: stability. They stay put
in Jupiter's orbit, about sixty degrees ahead and behind, with only
minor oscillations; spaceships need not waste fuel coming up to a body
which has been perturbed a goodly distance from where it was supposed
to be. The trailing group is the jumping-off place for trans-Jovian
planets, the leading group for the inner worlds--that way, their own
revolution about the sun gives the departing ship a welcome boost,
while minimizing the effects of Jupiter's drag.

Moreover, being dense clusters, they have attracted swarms of miners,
so that Achilles among the leaders and Patroclus in the trailers have a
permanent boom town atmosphere. Even though a spaceship and equipment
represent a large investment, this is one of the last strongholds of
genuinely private enterprise: the prospector, the mine owner, the
rockhound dreaming of the day when his stake is big enough for him to
start out on his own--a race of individualists, rough and noisy and
jealous, but living under iron rules of hospitality and rescue.

The Last Chance on Achilles has another name, which simply sticks an
"r" in the official one; even for that planetoid, it is a rowdy bar
where Guardsmen come in trios. But Johnny Malone liked it, and talked
Bo Jonsson into going there for a final spree before checkoff and
departure. "Nothing to compare," he insisted. "Every place else is
getting too fantangling civilized, except Venus, and I don't enjoy
Venus."

Johnny was from Luna City himself: a small, dark man with the quick
nervous movements and dipped accent of that roaring commercial
metropolis. He affected the latest styles, brilliant colors in the
flowing tunic and slacks, a beret cocked on his sleek head. But somehow
he didn't grate on Bo, they had been partners for several years now.

They pushed through a milling crowd at the bar, rockhounds who watched
one of Achilles' three live ecdysiasts with hungry eyes, and by some
miracle found an empty booth. Bo squeezed his bulk into one side of the
cubicle while Johnny, squinting through a reeking smoke-haze, dialed
drinks. Bo was larger and heavier than most spacemen--he'd never have
gotten his certificate before the ion drive came in--and was usually
content to let others talk while he listened. A placid blond giant,
with amiable blue eyes in a battered brown face, he did not consider
himself bright, and always wanted to learn.

Johnny gulped his drink and winced. "Whiskey, they call it yet! Water,
synthetic alcohol, and a dash of caramel they have the gall to label
whiskey and charge for!"

"Everything's expensive here," said Bo mildly. "That's why so few
rockhounds get rich. They make a lot of money, but they have to spend
it just as fast to stay alive."

"Yeh ... yeh ... wish they'd spend some of it on us." Johnny grinned
and fed the dispenser another coin. It muttered to itself and slid
forth a tray with a glass. "C'mon, drink up, man. It's a long way home,
and we've got to fortify ourselves for the trip. A bottle, a battle,
and a wench is what I need. Most especially the wench, because I don't
think the eminent Dr. McKittrick is gonna be interested in sociability,
and it's close quarters aboard the _Dog_."

Bo kept on sipping slowly. "Johnny," he said, raising his voice to cut
through the din, "you're an educated man. I never could figure out why
you want to talk like a jumper."

"Because I am one at heart. Look, Bo, why don't you get over that
inferiority complex of yours? A man can't run a spaceship without
knowing more math and physical science than the average professor on
Earth. So you had to work your way through the Academy and never had a
chance to fan yourself with a lily white hand while somebody tootled
Mozart through a horn. So what?" Johnny's head darted around, birdlike.
"If we want some women we'd better make our reservations now."

"I don't, Johnny," said Bo. "I'll just nurse a beer." It wasn't morals
so much as fastidiousness; he'd wait till they hit Luna.

"Suit yourself. If you don't want to uphold the honor of the Sirius
Transportation Company--"

Bo chuckled. The Company consisted of (a) the _Sirius_; (b) her crew,
himself and Johnny; (c) a warehouse, berth, and three other part owners
back in Luna City. Not exactly a tramp ship, because you can't normally
stop in the middle of an interplanetary voyage and head for somewhere
else; but she went wherever there was cargo or people to be moved.
Her margin of profit was not great in spite of the charges, for a
space trip is expensive; but in a few more years they'd be able to buy
another ship or two, and eventually Fireball and Triplanetary would be
getting some competition. Even the public lines might have to worry a
little.

Johnny put away another couple of shots and rose. Alcohol cost plenty,
but it was also more effective in low-gee. "'Scuse me," he said. "I see
a target. Sure you don't want me to ask if she has a friend?"

Bo shook his head and watched his partner move off, swift in the puny
gravity--the Last Chance didn't centrifuge like some of the tommicker
places downtown. It was hard to push through the crowd without weight
to help, but Johnny faded along and edged up to the girl with his
highest-powered smile. There were several other men standing around
her, but Johnny had The Touch. He'd be bringing her back here in a few
minutes.

Bo sighed, feeling a bit lonesome. If he wasn't going to make a night
of it, there was no point in drinking heavily. He had to make the final
inspection of the ship tomorrow, and grudged the cost of anti-hangover
tablets. Besides what he was putting back into the business, he was
trying to build a private hoard; some day, he'd retire and get married
and build a house. He already had the site picked out, on Kullen
overlooking the Sound, back on Earth. Man, but it was a long time since
he'd been on Earth!

A sharp noise slashed through the haze of talk and music Bo looked up.
There was a tall black haired man, Venusian to judge by his kilts,
arguing with Johnny. His face was ugly with anger.

Johnny made some reply. Bo heaved up his form and strode toward the
discussion, casually picking up anyone in the way and setting him
aside. Johnny liked a fight, but this Venusian was big.

As he neared, he caught words: "--my girl, dammit."

"Like hell I am!" said the girl. "I never saw you before--"

"Run along and play, son," said Johnny. "Or do you want me to change
that diaper of yours?"

That was when it happened. Bo saw the little needler spit from the
Venusian's fingers. Johnny stood there a moment, looking foolishly at
the dart in his stomach. Then his knees buckled and he fell with a
nightmare slowness.

The Venusian was already on the move. He sprang straight up, slammed a
kick at the wall, and arced out the door into the dome corridor beyond.
_A spaceman, that. Knows how to handle himself in low-gee._ It was the
only clear thought which ran in the sudden storm of Bo's head.

The girl screamed. A man cursed and tried to follow the Venusian.
He tangled with another. "Get outta my way!" A roar lifted, someone
slugged, someone else coolly smashed a bottle against the bar and
lifted the jagged end. There was the noise of a fist meeting flesh.

Bo had seen death before. That needle wasn't anesthetic, it was poison.
He knelt in the riot with Johnny's body in his arms.


                                  II

Suddenly the world came to an end. There was a sheer drop-off onto the
next face of the rough cube which was the asteroid. Bo lay on his belly
and peered down the cliff, it ran for a couple of miles and beyond it
were the deeps of space and the cold stars. He could dimly see the
tortured swirl of crystallization patterns in the smooth bareness. No
place to hide; his enemy was not there.

He turned the thought over in a mind which seemed stiff and slow. By
crossing that little plain he was exposing himself to a shot from one
of its edges. On the other hand, he could just as well be bushwhacked
from a ravine as he jumped over. And this route was the fastest for
completing his search scheme.

The Great Bear slid into sight, down under the world as it turned. He
had often stood on winter nights, back in Sweden, and seen its immense
sprawl across the weird flicker of aurora; but even then he wanted the
spaceman's experience of seeing it from above. Well, now he had his
wish, and much good it had done him.

He went over the edge of the cliff, cautiously, for it wouldn't take
much of an impetus to throw him off this rock entirely. Then his
helpless and soon frozen body would be just another meteor for the next
million years. The vague downward sensation of gravity shifted insanely
as he moved; he had the feeling that the world was tilting around him.
Now it was the precipice which was a scarred black plain underfoot,
reaching to a saw-toothed bluff at its farther edge.

He moved with flat low-gee bounds. Besides the danger of springing off
the asteroid entirely, there was its low acceleration to keep a man
near the ground; jump up a few feet and it would take you a while to
fall back. It was utterly silent around him. He had never thought there
could be so much stillness.

He was halfway across when the bullet came. He saw no flash, heard
no crack, but suddenly the fissured land before him exploded in a
soundless shower of chips. The bullet ricocheted flatly, heading off
for outer space. No meteor gravel, that!

Bo stood unmoving an instant, fighting the impulse to leap away. He was
a spaceman, not a rockhound; he wasn't used to this environment, and if
he jumped high he could be riddled as he fell slowly down again. Sweat
was cold on his body. He squinted, trying to see where the shot had
come from.

Suddenly he was zigzagging off across the plain toward the nearest
edge. Another bullet pocked the ground near him. The sun rose, a tiny
heatless dazzle blinding in his eyes.

Fire crashed at his back. Thunder and darkness exploded before him. He
lurched forward, driven by the impact. Something was roaring, echoes
clamorous in his helmet. He grew dimly aware that it was himself. Then
he was falling, whirling down into the black between the stars.

There was a knife in his back, it was white-hot and twisting between
the ribs. He stumbled over the edge of the plain and fell, waking when
his armor bounced a little against stone.

Breath rattled in his throat as he turned his head. There was a white
plume standing over his shoulder, air streaming out through the hole
and freezing its moisture. The knife in him was not hot, it was cold
with an ultimate cold.

Around him, world and stars rippled as if seen through heat, through
fever. He hung on the edge of creation by his fingertips, while chaos
shouted beneath.

       *       *       *       *       *

Theoretically, one man can run a spaceship, but in practice two
or three are required for non-military craft. This is not only an
emergency reserve, but a preventive of emergencies, for one man alone
might get too tired at the critical moments. Bo knew he wouldn't be
allowed to leave Achilles without a certified partner, and unemployed
spacemen available for immediate hiring are found once in a Venusian
snowfall.

Bo didn't care the first day. He had taken Johnny out to Helmet Hill
and laid him in the barren ground to wait, unchanging now, till
Judgement Day. He felt empty then, drained of grief and hope alike,
his main thought a dull dread of having to tell Johnny's father when
he reached Luna. He was too slow and clumsy with words; his comforting
hand would only break the old man's back. Old Malone had given six sons
to space, Johnny was the last; from Saturn to the sun, his blood was
strewn for nothing.

It hardly seemed to matter that the Guards office reported itself
unable to find the murderer. A single Venusian should have been easy to
trace on Achilles, but he seemed to have vanished completely.

Bo returned to the transient quarters and dialed Valeria McKittrick.
She looked impatiently at him out of the screen. "Well," she said,
"what's the matter? I thought we were blasting today."

"Hadn't you heard?" asked Bo. He found it hard to believe she could
be ignorant, here where everybody's life was known to everybody else.
"Johnny's dead. We can't leave."

"Oh ... I'm sorry. He was such a nice little man--I've been in the lab
all the time, packing my things, and didn't know." A frown crossed her
clear brow. "But you've got to get me back. I've engaged passage to
Luna with you."

"Your ticket will be refunded, of course," said Bo heavily. "But you
aren't certified, and the _Sirius_ is licensed for no less than two
operators."

"Well ... damn! There won't be another berth for weeks, and I've _got_
to get home. Can't you find somebody?"

Bo shrugged, not caring much. "I'll circulate an ad if you want, but--"

"Do so, please. Let me know." She switched off.

Bo sat for a moment thinking about her. Valeria McKittrick was worth
considering. She wasn't beautiful in any conventional sense but she was
tall and well built; there were good lines in the strong high boned
face, and her hair was a cataract of spectacular red. And brains,
too ... you didn't get to be a physicist with the Union's radiation
labs for nothing. He knew she was still young, and that she had been on
Achilles for about a year working on some special project and was now
ready to go home.

She was human enough, had been to most of the officers' parties and
danced and laughed and flirted mildly, but even the dullest rockhound
gossip knew she was too lost in her work to do more. Out here a woman
was rare, and a virtuous woman unheard-of; as a result, unknown to
herself, Dr. McKittrick's fame had spread through more thousands of
people and millions of miles than her professional achievements were
ever likely to reach.

Since coming here, on commission from the Lunar lab, to bring her
home, Bo Jonsson had given her an occasional wistful thought. He liked
intelligent women, and he was getting tired of rootlessness. But of
course it would be a catastrophe if he fell in love with her because
she wouldn't look twice at a big dumb slob like him. He had sweated out
a couple of similar affairs in the past and didn't want to go through
another.

He placed his ad on the radinews circuit and then went out to get
drunk. It was all he could do for Johnny now, drink him a final
wassail. Already his friend was cold under the stars. In the course of
the evening he found himself weeping.

He woke up many hours later. Achilles ran on Earth time but did not
rotate on it; officially, it was late at night, actually the shrunken
sun was high over the domes. The man in the upper bunk said there was a
message for him; he was to call one Einar Lundgard at the Comet Hotel
soonest.

The Comet! Anyone who could afford a room to himself here, rather than
a kip in the public barracks, was well fueled. Bo swallowed a tablet
and made his way to the visi and dialed. The robo-clerk summoned
Lundgard down to the desk.

It was a lean, muscular face under close cropped brown hair which
appeared in the screen. Lundgard was a tall and supple man, somehow
neat even without clothes. "Jonsson," said Bo. "Sorry to get you up,
but I understood--"

"Oh, yes. Are you looking for a spaceman? I heard your ad and I'm
available."

Bo felt his mouth gape open. "Huh? I never thought--"

"We're both lucky, I guess." Lundgard chuckled. His English had only
the slightest trace of accent, less than Bo's. "I thought I was stashed
here too for the next several months."

"How does a qualified spaceman happen to be marooned?"

"I'm with Fireball, was on the _Drake_--heard of what happened to her?"

Bo nodded, for every spaceman knows exactly what every spaceship is
doing at any given time. The _Drake_ had come to Achilles to pick up
a cargo of refined thorium for Earth; while she lay in orbit, she had
somehow lost a few hundred pounds of reaction-mass water from a cracked
gasket. Why the accident should have occurred, nobody knew ... spacemen
were not careless about inspections, and what reason would anyone have
for sabotage? The event had taken place about a month ago, when the
_Sirius_ was already enroute here; Bo had heard of it in the course of
shop talk.

"I thought she went back anyway," he said.

Lundgard nodded. "She did. It was the usual question of economics.
You know what refined fuel water costs in the Belt; also, the delay
while we got it would have carried Earth and Achilles past optimum
position, which'd make the trip home that much more expensive. Since we
had one more man aboard than really required, it was cheaper to leave
him behind; the difference in mass would make up for the fuel loss. I
volunteered, even suggested the idea, because ... well, it happened
during my watch, and even if nobody blamed me I couldn't help feeling
guilty."

Bo understood that kind of loyalty. You couldn't travel space without
men who had it.

"The Company beamed a message: I'd stay here till their schedule
permitted an undermanned ship to come by, but that wouldn't be for
maybe months," went on Lundgard. "I can't see sitting on this lump that
long without so much as a chance at planetfall bonus. If you'll take me
on, I'm sure the Company will agree; I'll get a message to them on the
beam right away."

"Take us a while to get back," warned Bo. "We're going to stop off at
another asteroid to pick up some automatic equipment, and won't go into
hyperbolic orbit till after that. About six weeks from here to Earth,
all told."

"Against six months here?" Lundgard laughed; it emphasized the bright
charm of his manner. "Sunblaze. I'll work for free."

"No need to. Bring your papers over tomorrow, huh?"

The certificate and record were perfectly in order, showing Einar
Lundgard to be a Spacetech 1/cl with eight years' experience,
qualified as engineer, astronaut, pilot, and any other of the thousand
professions which have run into one. They registered articles and shook
hands on it. "Call me Bo. It really is my name ... Swedish."

"Another squarehead, eh?" grinned Lundgard. "I'm from South America
myself."

"Notice a year's gap here," said Bo, pointing to the service record.
"On Venus."

"Oh, yes. I had some fool idea about settling but soon learned better.
I tried to farm, but when you have to carve your own land out of
howling desert--Well, let's start some math, shall we?"

They were lucky, not having to wait their turn at the station computer;
no other ship was leaving immediately. They fed it the data and
requirements, and got back columns of numbers: fuel requirements,
acceleration times, orbital elements. The figures always had to be
modified, no trip ever turned out just as predicted, but that could be
done when needed with a slipstick and the little ship's calculator.

Bo went at his share of the job doggedly, checking and re-checking
before giving the problem to the machine; Lundgard breezed through it
and spent his time while waiting for Bo in swapping dirty limericks
with the tech. He had some good ones.

The _Sirius_ was loaded, inspected, and cleared. A "scooter" brought
her three passengers up to her orbit, they embarked, settled down, and
waited. At the proper time, acceleration jammed them back in a thunder
of rockets.

Bo relaxed against the thrust, thinking of Achilles falling away behind
them. "So long," he whispered. "So long, Johnny."


                                  III

In another minute, he would be knotted and screaming from the bends,
and a couple of minutes later he would be dead.

Bo clamped his teeth together, as if he would grip consciousness in
his jaws. His hands felt cold and heavy, the hands of a stranger, as
he fumbled for the supply pouch. It seemed to recede from him, down a
hollow infinite corridor where echoes talked in a language he did not
know.

"Damn," he gasped. "Damn, damn, damn, damn, damn."

He got the pouch open somehow. The stars wheeled around him. There
were stars buzzing in his head, like cold white fireflies, buzzing and
buzzing in the enormous ringing emptiness of his skull. Pain jagged
through him, he felt his eardrums popping as pressure dropped.

The plastic patch stuck to his metal gauntlet. He peeled it off, trying
not to howl with the fury ripping in his nerves. His body was slow,
inert, a thing to fight. There was no more feeling in his back, was he
dead already?

Redness flamed before his eyes, red like Valeria's hair blowing across
the stars. It was sheer reflex which brought his arm around to slap the
patch over the hole in his suit. The adhesive gripped, drying fast in
the sucking vacuum. The patch bellied out from internal air pressure,
straining to break loose and kill him.

Bo's mind wavered back toward life. He opened the valves wide on his
tanks, and his thermostatic capacitors pumped heat back into him. For
a long time he lay there, only lungs and heart had motion. His throat
felt withered and flayed, but the rasp of air through it was like being
born again.

Born, spewed out of an iron womb into a hollowness of stars and cold,
to lie on naked rock while the enemy hunted him. Bo shuddered and
wanted to scream again.

Slowly he groped back toward awareness. His frostbitten back tingled
as it warmed up again, soon it would be afire. He could feel a hot
trickling of blood, but it was along his right side. The bullet must
have spent most of its force punching through the armor, caromed off
the inside, scratched his ribs, and fallen dead. Next time he probably
wouldn't be so lucky. A magnetic-driven .30 slug would go through
a helmet, splashing brains as it passed.

He turned his head, feeling a great weariness, and looked at the
gauges. This had cost him a lot of air. There was only about three
hours worth left. Lundgard could kill him simply by waiting.

It would be easy to die. He lay on his back, staring up at the stars
and the spilling cloudy glory of the Milky Way. A warmth was creeping
back into numbed hands and feet; soon he would be warm all over, and
sleepy. His eyelids felt heavy, strange that they should be so heavy on
an asteroid.

He wanted terribly to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

There wasn't much room in the _Sirius_, the only privacy was gained by
drawing curtains across your bunk. Men without psych training could
get to hate each other on a voyage. Bo wondered if he would reach Luna
hating Einar Lundgard.

The man was competent, a willing worker, tempering his cheerfulness
with tact, always immaculate in the neat blue and white of the Fireball
Line which made Bo feel doubly sloppy in his own old gray coverall. He
was a fine conversationalist with an enormous stock of reminiscence and
ideas, witty above a certain passion of belief. It seemed as if he and
Valeria were always talking, animated voices like a sound of life over
the mechanical ship-murmurs, while Bo sat dumbly in a corner wishing he
could think of something to say.

The trouble was, in spite of all his efforts, he was doing a cometary
dive into another bad case of one-sided love. When she spoke in that
husky voice of hers, gray gleam of eyes under hair that floated flaming
in null-gee, the beauty he saw in her was like pain. And she was always
around. It couldn't be helped. Once they had gone into free fall he
could only polish so much metal and tinker with so many appliances;
after that they were crowded together in a long waiting.

--"And why were you all alone in the Belt?" asked Lundgard. "In spite
of all the romantic stories about the wild free life of the rockhound,
it's the dullest place in the System."

"Not to me," she smiled. "I was working. There were experiments to be
done, factors to be measured, away from solar radiation. There are
always ions around inside the orbit of Mars to jamble up a delicate
apparatus."

Bo sat quiet, trying to keep his eyes off her. She looked good in
shorts and half-cape. Too good.

"It's something to do with power beaming, isn't it?" Lundgard's
handsome face creased in a frown. "Afraid I don't quite understand.
They've been beaming power on the planets for a long time now."

"So they have," she nodded. "What we're after is an interplanetary
power beam. And we've got it." She gestured to the baggage rack and a
thick trunk full of papers she had put there. "That's it. The basic
circuits, factors, and constants. Any competent engineer could draw up
a design from them."

"Hmmm ... precision work, eh?"

"Obviously! It was hard enough to do on, say, Earth--you need a
_really_ tight beam in just the right frequencies, a feedback signal
to direct each beam at the desired outlet, relay stations--oh, yes,
it was a ten-year research project before they could even think about
building. An interplanetary beam has all those problems plus a number
of its own. You have to get the dispersion down to a figure so low
it hardly seems possible. You can't use feedback because of the time
lag, so the beams have to be aimed _exactly_ right--and the planets
are always moving, at miles per second. An error of one degree would
throw your beam almost two million miles off in crossing one A.U. And
besides being so precise, the beam has to carry a begawatt at least to
be worth the trouble. The problem looked insoluble till someone in the
Order of Planetary Engineers came up with an idea for a trick control
circuit hooked into a special computer. My lab's been working together
with the Order on it, and I was making certain final determinations for
them. It's finished now ... twelve years of work and we're done." She
laughed. "Except for building the stations and getting the bugs out!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lundgard cocked an oddly sardonic brow. "And what do you hope for from
it?" he asked. "What have the psychotechs decided to do with this
thing?"

"Isn't it obvious?" she cried. "Power! Nuclear fuel is getting scarcer
every day, and civilization is finished if we can't find another energy
source. The sun is pouring out more than we'll ever need, but sheer
distance dilutes it below a useful level by the time it gets to Venus.

"We'll build stations on the hot side of Mercury. Orbital stations
can relay. We can get the beams as far out as Mars without too much
dispersion. It'll bring down the rising price of atomic energy, which
is making all other prices rise, and stretch our supply of fissionables
for centuries more. No more fuel worries, no more Martians freezing to
death because a converter fails, no more clan feuds on Venus starting
over uranium beds--" The excited flush on her cheeks was lovely to look
at.

Lundgard shook his head. There was a sadness in his smile. "You're
a true child of the New Enlightenment," he said. "Reason will solve
everything. Science will find a cure for all our ills. Give man a cheap
energy source and leave him forever happy. It won't work, you know."

Something like anger crossed her eyes. "What are you?" she asked. "A
Humanist?"

"Yes," said Lundgard quietly.

Bo started. He'd known about the anti-psychotechnic movement which was
growing on Earth, seen a few of its adherents, but--

"I never thought a spaceman would be a Humanist," he stammered.

Lundgard shrugged wryly. "Don't be afraid. I don't eat babies. I don't
even get hysterics in an argument. All I've done is use the scientific
method, observing the world without preconceptions, and learned by it
that the scientific method doesn't have all the answers."

"Instead," said Valeria, scornfully, "we should all go back to church
and pray for what we want rather than working for it."

"Not at all," said Lundgard mildly. "The New Enlightenment is--or was,
because it's dying--a very natural state of mind. Here Earth had come
out of the World Wars, racked and ruined, starving and chaotic, and
all because of unbridled ideology. So the physical scientists produced
goods and machines and conquered the planets; the biologists found
new food sources and new cures for disease; the psychotechs built up
their knowledge to a point where the socio-economic unity could really
be planned and the plan worked. Man was unified, war had sunken to an
occasional small 'police action,' people were eating and had comfort
and security--all through applied, working science. Naturally they came
to believe reason would solve their remaining problems. But this faith
in reason was itself an emotional reaction from the preceding age of
unreason.

"Well, we've had a century of enlightenment now, and it has created its
own troubles which it cannot solve. No age can handle the difficulties
it raises for itself; that's left to the next era. There are practical
problems arising, and no matter how desperately the psychotechs work
they aren't succeeding with them."

"What problems?" asked Bo, feeling a little bewildered.

"Man, don't you ever see a newscast?" challenged Lundgard. "The Second
Industrial Revolution, millions of people thrown out of work by the
new automata. They aren't going hungry, but they are displaced and
bitter. The economic center of Earth is shifting to Asia, the political
power with it, and hundreds of millions of Asians are skeptical aboard
this antiseptic New Order the West has been bringing them: cultural
resistance, and not all the psychotechnic propaganda in the System can
shake it off. The men of Mars, Venus, the Belt, the Jovian moons are
developing their own civilizations--inevitably, in alien environments;
their own ways of living and thinking, which just don't fit into
the neat scheme of an Earth-dominated Solar Union. The psychotechs
themselves are being driven to oligarchic, unconstitutional acts; they
have no choice, but it's making them enemies.

"And then there's the normal human energy and drive. Man can only
be safe and sane and secure for so long, then he reacts. This New
Enlightenment is really a decadent age, a period where an exhausted
civilization has been resting under a holy status quo. It can't last.
Man always wants something new."

"You Humanists talk a lot about 'man's right to variability,'" said
Valeria. "If you really carry off that revolution your writings
advocate you'll just trade one power group for another--and more
fanatic, less lawful, than the present one."

"Not necessarily," said Lundgard. "After all, the Union will probably
break up. It can't last forever. All we want to do is hasten the day
because we feel that it's outlived its usefulness."

Bo shook his head. "I can't see it," he said heavily. "I just can't
see it. All those people--the Lunarites, the violent clansmen on
Venus, the stiff correct Martians, the asteroid rockhounds, even those
mysterious Jovians--they all came from Earth. It was Earth's help that
made their planets habitable. We're all men, all one race."

"A fiction," said Lundgard. "The human race is a fiction. There are
only small groups with their own conflicting interests."

"And if those conflicts are allowed to break into war--" said Valeria.
"Do you know what a lithium bomb can do?"

There was a reckless gleam in Lundgard's eyes. "If a period of
interplanetary wars is necessary, let's get it over with," he answered.
"Enough men will survive to build something better. This age has
gotten stale. It's petrifying. There have been plenty of shake-ups in
history--the fall of Rome, the Reformation, the Napoleonic Wars, the
World Wars. It's been man's way of progressing."

"I don't know about all those," said Bo slowly. "I just know I wouldn't
want to live through such a time."

"You're soft," said Lundgard. "Down underneath you're soft." He laughed
disarmingly. "Pardon me. I didn't mean anything personal. I'll never
convince you and you'll never convince me, so let's keep it friendly. I
hope you'll have some free time on Luna, Valeria. I know a little grill
where they serve the best synthosteaks in the System."

"All right," she smiled. "It's a date."

Bo mumbled some excuse and went aft. He was still calling her Dr.
McKittrick.


                                  IV

You can't just lie here and let him come kill you.

There was a picture behind his eyes; he didn't know if it was a dream
or a long buried memory. He stood under an aspen which quivered and
rustled as if it laughed to itself softly, softly, when the wind
embraced it. And the wind was blowing up a red granite slope, wild
and salt from the Sound, and there were towering clouds lifting over
Denmark to the west. The sunlight rained and streamed through aspen
leaves, broken, shaken, falling in spatters against the earth, and
he, Bo Jonsson, laughed with the wind and the tree and the far watery
glitter of the Sound.

He opened his eyes, wearily, like an old man. Orion was marching past,
and there was a blaze on crags five miles off which told of the rising
sun. The asteroid spun swiftly; he had been here for many of its days
now, and each day burdened him like a year.

Got to get out of here, he knew.

He sat up, pain tearing along his furrowed breast. Somehow he had kept
the wrench with him, he stared at it in a dull wonder.

Where to go, where to hide, what to do?

Thirst nagged him. Slowly he uncoiled the tube which led from the
electrically heated canteen welded to his suit, screwed its end into
the helmet nipple, thumbed down the clamp which closed it, and sucked
hard. It helped a little.

He dragged himself to his feet and stood swaying, only the
near-weightlessness kept him erect. Turning his head in its transparent
cage, he saw the sun rise, and bright spots danced before him when he
looked away.

His vision cleared, but for a moment he thought the shadow lifting over
a nearby ridge was a wisp of unconsciousness. Then he made out the
bulky black-painted edge of it, gigantic against the Milky Way, and it
was Lundgard, moving unhurriedly up to kill him.

A dark laughter was in his radio earphones. "Take it easy, Bo. I'll be
there in a minute."

He backed away, his heart a sudden thunder, looking for a place to
hide. Down! Get down and don't stand where he can see you! He crouched
as much as the armor would allow and broke into a bounding run.

A slug spat broken stone near his feet. The powdery dust hung for
minutes before settling. Breath rattled in his throat. He saw the lip
of a meteoric crater and dove.

Crouching there, he heard Lundgard's voice again: "You're somewhere
near. Why not come out and finish it now?"

The radio was non-directional, so he snapped back: "A gun against a
monkey wrench?"

Lundgard's coolness broke a little; there was almost a puzzled note:
"I hate to do this. Why can't you be reasonable? I don't want to kill
you."

"The trouble," said Bo harshly, "is that I want to kill you."

"Behold the man of the New Enlightenment!" Bo could imagine Lundgard's
grin. It would be tight, and there would be sweat on the lean face, but
the amusement was genuine. "Didn't you believe sweet reasonableness
could solve everything? This is only the beginning, Bo, just a small
preliminary hint that the age of reason is dying. I've already
converted you to my way of thinking, by the very fact you're fighting
me. Why not admit it?"

Bo shook his head--futile gesture, looked in darkness where he lay.
There was a frosty blaze of stars when he looked up.

It was more than himself and Johnny Malone, more even than the
principle of the thing and the catastrophe to all men which Lundgard's
victory meant. There was something deep and primitive which would not
let him surrender, even in the teeth of annihilation. Valeria's image
swayed before him.

Lundgard was moving around, peering over the shadowy tumble of
blackened rock in search of any trace. There was a magnetic rifle in
his hands. Bo strained his helmet to the crater floor, trying to hear
ground vibrations, but there was nothing. He didn't know where Lundgard
was, only that he was very near.

Blindly, he bundled his legs and sprang out of the pit.

       *       *       *       *       *

They found the asteroid where Valeria had left her recording
instruments. It was a tiny drifting fragment of a world which had never
been born, turning endlessly between the constellations; the _Sirius_
moored fast with grapples, and Valeria donned a spacesuit and went out
to get her apparatus. Lundgard accompanied her. As there was only work
for two, Bo stayed behind.

He slumped for a while in the pilot chair, letting his mind pace
through a circle of futility. Valeria, Valeria, Valeria--O strong and
fair and never to be forgotten, would he ever see her again after they
made Luna?

_This won't do_, he told himself dully. _I should at least keep busy.
Thank God for work._

He wasn't much of a thinker, he knew that, but he had cleverness in
his hands. It was satisfying to watch a machine come right under his
tools. Working, he could see the falseness of Lundgard's philosophy.
The man could quote history all he wanted; weave a glittering circle
of logic around Bo's awkward brain, but it didn't change facts. Maybe
this century was headed for trouble; maybe psychotechnic government was
only another human self-limitation and should be changed for something
else; nevertheless, the truth remained that most men were workers who
wished no more than peace in which to create as best they could. All
the high ideals in the universe weren't worth breaking the Union for
and smashing the work of human hands in a single burst of annihilating
flame.

_I can feel it, down inside me. But why can't I say it?_

He got up and went over to the baggage rack, remembering that Lundgard
had dozens of book-reels along and that reading would help him not to
think about what he could never have.

On a planet Bo would not have dreamed of helping himself without asking
first. But custom is different in space, where there is no privacy and
men must be a unit if they are to survive. He was faintly surprised
to see that Lundgard's personal suitcase was locked; but it would be
hours, probably, before the owner got back: dismantling a recorder
setup took time. A long time, in which to talk and laugh with Valeria.
In the chill spatial radiance, her hair would be like frosty fire.

Casually, Bo stooped across to Lundgard's sack-hammock and took his key
ring off the hook. He opened the suitcase and lifted out some of the
reels in search of a promising title.

Underneath them were neatly folded clothes, Fireball uniforms and fancy
dress pajamas. A tartan edge stuck out from below, and Bo lifted a coat
to see what clan that was. Probably a souvenir of Lundgard's Venusian
stay--

Next to the kilt was a box which he recognized. L-masks came in such
boxes.

How the idea came to him, he did not know. He stood there for minutes,
looking at the box without seeing it. The ship was very quiet around
him. He had a sudden feeling that the walls were closing in.

When he opened the box, his hands shook, and there was sweat trickling
along his ribs.

The mask was of the latest type, meant to fit over the head, snug
around the cheeks and mouth and jaws. It was like a second skin,
reflecting expression, not to be told from a real face. Bo saw the
craggy nose and the shock of dark hair, limp now, but--

Suddenly he was back on Achilles, with riot roaring around him and
Johnny Malone's body in his arms.

No wonder they never found that Venusian. There never was any.

Bo felt a dim shock when he looked at the chronometer. Only five
minutes had gone by while he stood there. Only five minutes to turn the
cosmos inside out.

Very slowly and carefully he repacked the suitcase and put it in the
rack and sat down to think.

What to do?

Accuse Lundgard to his face--no, the man undoubtedly carried that
needler. And there was Valeria to think of. A ricocheting dart, a
scratch on her, no! It took Bo a long time to decide; his brain seemed
viscous. When he looked out of a port to the indifferent stars, he
shuddered.

       *       *       *       *       *

They came back, shedding their spacesuits in the airlock; frost
whitened the armor as moisture condensed on chilled surfaces. The metal
seemed to breathe cold. Valeria went efficiently to work, stowing the
boxed instruments as carefully as if they were her children. There was
a laughter on her lips which turned Bo's heart around inside him.

Lundgard leaned over the tiny desk where he sat. "What y' doing?" he
asked.

"Recalculating our orbit to Luna," said Bo. "I want to go slow for a
few million miles before going up to hyperbolic speed."

"Why? It'll add days to the trip, and the fuel--"

"I ... I'm afraid we might barge into Swarm 770. It's supposed to be
near here now and, uh, the positions of those things are never known
for sure ... perturbations...." Bo's mouth felt dry.

"You've got a megamile of safety margin or your orbit would never have
been approved," argued Lundgard.

"Hell damn it, I'm the captain!" yelled Bo.

"All right, all right ... take it easy, skipper." Lundgard shot a
humorous glance at Valeria. "I certainly don't mind a few extra days
in ... the present company."

She smiled at him. Bo felt ill.

His excuse was thin; if Lundgard thought to check the ephemeris, it
would fall to ruin. But he couldn't tell the real reason.

An iron-drive ship does not need to drift along the economical Hohmann
"A" orbit of the big freighters; it can build up such furious speed
that the sun will swing it along a hyperbola rather than an ellipse,
and can still brake that speed near its destination. But the critical
stage of acceleration has to be just right, or there will not be enough
fuel to stop completely; the ship will be pulled into a cometary orbit
and run helpless, the crew probably starving before a rescue vessel can
locate them. Bo dared not risk the trouble exploding at full drive; he
would drift along, capture and bind Lundgard at the first chance, and
then head for Earth. He could handle the _Sirius_ alone even if it was
illegal; he could not handle her if he had to fight simultaneously.

His knuckles were white on the controls as he loosed the grapples and
nudged away from the asteroid with a whisper of power. After a few
minutes of low acceleration, he cut the rockets, checked position and
velocity, and nodded. "On orbit," he said mechanically. "It's your turn
to cook, Ei ... Einar."

Lundgard swooped easily through the air into the cubbyhole which served
for a galley. Cooking in free fall is an art which not all spacemen
master, but he could--his meals were even good. Bo felt a helpless kind
of rage at his own clumsy efforts.

He crouched in midair, dark of mind, a leg hooked around a stanchion to
keep from drifting.

When someone touched him, his heart jumped and he whirled around.

"What's the matter, Bo?" asked Valeria. "You look like doomsday."

"I ... I...." He gulped noisily and twisted his mouth into a smile.
"Just feeling a little off."

"It's more than that, I think." Her eyes were grave. "You've seemed so
unhappy the whole trip. Is there anything I can do to help?"

"Thanks ... Dr. McKittrick ... but--"

"Don't be so formal," she said, almost wistfully. "I don't bite. Too
many men think I do. Can't we be friends?"

"With a thick-headed clinker like me?" His whisper was raw.

"Don't be silly. It takes brains to be a spaceman. I like a man who
knows when to be quiet." She lowered her eyes, the lashes were long
and sooty black. "There's something solid about you, something so few
people seem to have these days. I wish you wouldn't go feeling so
inferior."

At any other time it would have been a sunburst in him. Now he thought
of death, and mumbled something and looked away. A hurt expression
crossed her face. "I won't bother you," she said gently, and moved off.

The thing was to fall on Lundgard while he slept--

The radar alarm buzzed during a dinner in which Lundgard's flow of talk
had battered vainly against silence and finally given up. Bo vaulted
over to the control panel and checked. No red light glowed, and the
auto-pilot wasn't whipping them out of danger, so they weren't on a
collision course. But the object was getting close. Bo calculated it
was an asteroid on an orbit almost parallel to their own, relative
speed only a few feet per second; it would come within ten miles or
so. In the magnifying periscope, it showed as a jagged dark cube,
turning around itself and flashing hard glints of sunlight off mica
beds--perhaps six miles square, all crags and cracks and fracture
faces, heatless and lifeless and kindless.


                                   V

Lundgard yawned elaborately after dinner. "Excuse," he said. "Unless
somebody's for chess?" His hopeful glance met the grimness of Bo and
the odd sadness of Valeria, and he shrugged. "All right, then. Pleasant
dreams."

After ten minutes--_now!_

Bo uncoiled himself. "Valeria," he whispered, as if the name were holy.

"Yes?" She arched her brows expectantly.

"I can't stop to explain now. I've got to do something dangerous. Get
back aft of the gyro housing."

"What?"

"Get back!" Command blazed frantically in him. "And stay there,
whatever happens."

Something like fear flickered in her eyes. It was a very long way to
human help. Then she nodded, puzzled but with an obedience which held
gallantry, and slipped out of sight behind the steel pillar.

Bo launched himself across the room in a single null-gee bound. One
hand ripped aside Lundgard's curtain, the other got him by the throat.

"What the hell--"

Lundgard exploded into life. His fist crashed against Bo's cheek. Bo
held on with one hand and slugged with the other. Knuckles bounced on
rubbery muscle. Lundgard's arm snaked for the tunic stretched on his
bunk wall; his body came lithely out of the sack. Bo snatched for that
wrist. Lundgard's free hand came around, edged out to slam him in the
larynx.

Pain ripped through Bo. He let go and sailed across the room. Lundgard
was pulling out his needler.

Bo hit the opposite wall and rebounded--not for the armed man, but
for the control panel. Lundgard spat a dart at him. It burst on the
viewport over his shoulder, and Bo caught the acrid whiff of poison.
Then the converter was roaring to life and whining gyros spun the ship
around.

Lundgard was hurled across the room. He collected himself, catlike,
grabbed a stanchion, and raised the gun again. "I've got the drop," he
said. "Get away from there or you're a dead man."

It was as if someone else had seized Bo's body. Decision was like
lightning through him. He had tried to capture Lundgard, and failed,
and venom crouched at his back. But the ship was pointed for the
asteroid now, where it hung gloomily a dozen miles off, and the rockets
were ready to spew.

"If you shoot me," said Bo, "I'll live just long enough to pour on the
juice. We'll hit that rock and scatter from hell to breakfast."

Valeria emerged. Lundgard swung the needler to cover her. "Stay where
you are!" he rapped.

"What's happening?" she said fearfully.

"I don't know," said Lundgard. "Bo's gone crazy--attacked me--"

Wrath boiled black in the pilot. He snarled, "You killed my partner.
You must'a been fixing to kill us too."

"What do you mean?" whispered Valeria.

"How should I know?" said Lundgard. "He's jumped his orbit, that's all.
Look, Bo, be reasonable. Get away from that panel--"

"Look in his suitcase, Valeria." Bo forced the words out of a tautened
throat. "A Venusian shot my partner. You'll find his face and his
clothes in Lundgard's things. I'd know that face in the middle of the
sun."

She hung for a long while, not moving. Bo couldn't see her. His eyes
were nailed to the asteroid, keeping the ship's nose pointed at it.

"Is that true, Einar?" she asked finally.

"No," he said. "Of course not. I do have Venusian clothes and a mask,
but--"

"Then why are you keeping me covered too?"

Lundgard didn't answer at once. The only noise was the murmur of
machinery and the dense breathing of three pairs of lungs. Then his
laugh jarred forth.

"All right," he said. "I hadn't meant it to come yet, or to come this
way, but all right."

"Why did you kill Johnny?" Tears stung Bo's eyes. "He never hurt you."

"It was necessary." Lundgard's mouth twitched. "But you see, we knew
you were going to Achilles to pick up Valeria and her data. We needed
to get a man aboard your ship, to take over when her orbit brought
her close to our asteroid base. You've forced my hand--I wasn't going
to capture you for days yet. I sabotaged the _Drake's_ fuel tanks to
get myself stranded there, and shot your friend to get his berth. I'm
sorry."

"Why?" Horror rode Valeria's voice.

"I'm a Humanist. I've never made a secret of that. What our secret is,
is that some of us aren't content just to talk revolution. We want to
give this rotten, over-mechanized society the shove that will bring
on its end. We've built up a small force, not much as yet, not enough
to accomplish anything lasting. But if we had a solar power beam it
would make a big difference. It could be adapted to direct military
uses, as well as supplying energy to our machines. A lens effect, a
concentration of solar radiation strong enough to burn. Well, it seems
worth trying."

"And what do you intend for us?"

"You'll have to be kept prisoners for a while, of course," said
Lundgard. "It won't be onerous. We aren't beasts."

"No," said Bo. "Just murderers."

"Save the dramatics," snapped Lundgard. "I have the gun. Get away from
those controls."

Bo shook his head. There was a wild hammering in his breast, but his
voice surprised him with steadiness: "No. I've got the upper hand. I
can kill you if you move. Yell if he tries anything, Valeria."

Lundgard's eyes challenged her. "Do you want to die?" he asked.

Her head lifted. "No," she said, "but I'm not afraid to. Go ahead if
you must, Bo. It's all right."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bo felt cold. He knew he wouldn't. He was bluffing. In the final
showdown he could not crash her. He had seen too many withered space
drained mummies in his time. But maybe Lundgard didn't realize that.

"Give up," he said. "You can't gain a damn thing. I'm not going to see
a billion people burned alive just to save our necks. Make a bargain
for your life."

"No," said Lundgard with a curious gentleness. "I have my own brand of
honor. I'm not going to surrender to you. You can't sit there forever."

Impasse. The ship floated through eternal silence while they waited.

"All right," said Bo. "I'll fight you for the power beam."

"How's that?"

"I can throw this ship into orbit around the asteroid. We can go down
there and settle the thing between us. The winner can jump up here
again with the help of a jet of tanked air. The lump hasn't got much
gravity."

Lundgard hesitated. "And how do I know you'll keep your end of the
bargain?" he asked. "You could let me go through the airlock, then
close it and blast off."

Bo had had some such thought, but he might have known it wouldn't work.
"What do you suggest?" he countered, never taking his eyes off the
planetoid. "Remember, I don't trust you either."

Lundgard laughed suddenly, a hard yelping bark. "I know! Valeria, go
aft and remove all the control-rod links and spares. Bring them back
here. I'll go out first, taking half of them with me, and Bo can follow
with the other half. He'll have to."

"I--no! I won't," she whispered. "I can't let you--"

"Go ahead and do it," said Bo. He felt a sudden vast weariness. "It's
the only way we can break this deadlock."

She wept as she went toward the engine room.

Lundgard's thought was good. Without linked control-rods, the converter
couldn't operate five minutes, it would flare up and melt itself and
kill everyone aboard in a flood of radiation. Whoever won the duel
could quickly re-install the necessary parts.

There was a waiting silence. At last Lundgard said, almost
abstractedly: "Holmgang. Do you know what that means, Bo?"

"No."

"You ought to. It was a custom of our ancestors back in the early
Middle Ages--the Viking time. Two men would go off to a little island,
a holm, to settle their differences; one would come back. I never
thought it could happen out here." He chuckled bleakly. "Valkyries in
spacesuits?"

The girl came back with the links tied in two bundles. Lundgard counted
them and nodded. "All right." He seemed strangely calm, an easy
assurance lay over him like armor. Bo's fear was cold in his belly, and
Valeria wept still with a helpless horror.

The pilot used a safe two minutes of low blast to edge up to the
asteroid. "I'll go into the airlock and put on my spacesuit," said
Lundgard. "Then I'll jump down and you can put the ship in orbit. Don't
try anything while I'm changing, because I'll keep this needler handy."

"It won't work against a spacesuit," said Bo.

Lundgard laughed. "I know," he said. He kissed his hand to Valeria and
backed into the lock chamber. The outer valve closed behind him.

"Bo!" Valeria grabbed the pilot by the shoulders, and he looked around
into her face. "You can't go out there, I won't let you, I--"

"If I don't," he said tonelessly, "we'll orbit around here till we
starve."

"But you could be killed!"

"I hope not. For your sake, mostly, I hope not," he said awkwardly.
"But he won't have any more weapon than me, just a monkey wrench."
There was a metal tube welded to the leg of each suit for holding
tools; wrenches, the most commonly used, were simply left there as a
rule. "I'm bigger than he is."

"But--" She laid her head on his breast and shuddered with crying. He
tried to comfort her.

"All right," he said at last. "All right. Lundgard must be through. I'd
better get started."

"Leave him!" she blazed. "His air won't last many hours. We can wait."

"And when he sees he's been tricked, you think he won't wreck those
links? No. There's no way out."

It was as if all his life he had walked on a road which had no
turnings, which led inevitably to this moment.

He made some careful calculations from the instrument readings,
physical constants of the asteroid, and used another minute's
maneuvering to assume orbital velocity. Alarm lights blinked angry eyes
at him, the converter was heating up. No more traveling till the links
were restored.

Bo floated from his chair toward the lock. "Good-bye, Valeria," he
said, feeling the bloodless weakness of words. "I hope it won't be for
long."

She threw her arms about him and kissed him. The taste of tears was
still on his lips when he had dogged down his helmet.

Opening the outer valve he moved forth, magnetic boots clamping to the
hull. A gulf of stars yawned around him, a cloudy halo about his head.
The stillness was smothering.

When he was "over" the asteroid he gauged his position with a practiced
eye and jumped free. Falling, he thought mostly of Valeria.

As he landed he looked around. No sign of Lundgard. The man could be
anywhere in these square miles of cosmic wreckage. He spoke tentatively
into his radio, in case Lundgard should be within the horizon: "Hello,
are you there?"

"Yes. I'm coming." There was a sharp cruel note of laughter. "Sorry
to play this dirty, but there are bigger issues at stake than you or
me. I've kept a rifle in my tool-tube all the time ... just in case.
Good-bye, Bo."

A slug smashed into the pinnacle behind him. Bo turned and ran.


                                  VI

As he rose over the lip of the crater, his head swung, seeking his
enemy. There!

It was almost a reflex which brought his arm back and sent the wrench
hurtling across the few yards between. Before it had struck, Bo's feet
lashed against the pit edge, and the kick arced him toward Lundgard.

Spacemen have to be good at throwing things. The wrench hit the lifted
rifle in a soundless shiver of metal, tore it loose from an insecure
gauntleted grasp and sent it spinning into shadow. Lundgard yelled,
spun on his heel, and dove after it. Then the flying body of Bo Jonsson
struck him.

Even in low-gee, matter has all its inertia. The impact rang and boomed
within their armor, they swayed and fell to the ground, locking arms
and hammering futilely at helmets. Rolling over, Bo got on top, his
hands closed on Lundgard's throat--where the throat should have been,
but plastic and alloy held fast; instinct had betrayed him.

Lundgard snarled, doubled his legs and kicked. Bo was sent staggering
back. Lundgard crawled erect and turned to look for the rifle. Bo
couldn't see it either in the near-solid blackness where no light fell,
but his wrench lay as a dark gleam. He sprang for that, closed a hand
on it, bounced up, and rushed at Lundgard. A swing shocked his own
muscles with its force, and Lundgard lurched.

Bo moved in on him. Lundgard reached into his tool-tube and drew out
his own wrench. He circled, his panting hoarse in Bo's earphones.

"This ... is the way ... it was supposed to be," said Bo.

He jumped in, his weapon whirling down to shiver again on the other
helmet. Lundgard shook a dazed head and countered. The impact roared
and echoed in Bo's helmet, on into his skull. He smashed heavily.
Lundgard's lifted wrench parried the blow, it slid off. Like a fencer,
Lundgard snaked his shaft in and the reverberations were deafening.

Bo braced himself and smote with all his power. The hit sang back
through iron and alloy, into his own bones. Lundgard staggered a
little, hunched himself and struck in return.

They stood with feet braced apart, trading fury, a metal rain on
shivering plastic. The stuff was almost unbreakable, but not quite, not
for long when such violence dinned on it. Bo felt a lifting wild glee,
something savage he had never known before leaped up in him and he
bellowed. He was stronger, he could hit harder. Lundgard's helmet would
break first!

The Humanist retreated, using his wrench like a sword, stopping the
force of blows without trying to deal more of his own. His left hand
fumbled at his side. Bo hardly noticed. He was pushing in, hewing,
hewing. Again the shrunken sun rose, to flash hard light off his club.

Lundgard grinned, his face barely visible as highlight and shadow
behind the plastic. His raised tool turned one hit, it slipped along
his arm to rap his flank. Bo twisted his arm around, beat the other
wrench aside for a moment, and landed a crack like a thunderbolt.

Then Lundgard had his drinking hose free, pointing in his left hand. He
thumbed down the clamp, exposing water at fifty degrees to naked space.

It rushed forth, driven by its own vapor pressure, a stream like a
lance in the wan sunshine. When it hit Bo's helmet, most of it boiled
off ... cooling the rest, which froze instantly.

Blindness clamped down on Bo. He leaped away, cursing, the front of his
helmet so frosted he could not see before him. Lundgard bounced around,
playing the hose on him. Through the rime-coat, Bo could make out only
a grayness.

He pawed at it, trying to wipe it off, knowing that Lundgard was using
this captured minute to look for the rifle. As he got some of the ice
loose, he heard a sharp yell of victory--found!

Turning, he ran again.

Over that ridge! Down on your belly! A slug pocked the stone above him.
Rolling over, he got to his feet and bounded off toward a steep rise,
still wiping blindness off his helmet. But he could not wipe the bitter
vomit taste of defeat out of his mouth.

His breathing was a file that raked in his throat. Heart and lungs were
ready to tear loose, and there was a cold knot in his guts. Fleeing up
the high, ragged slope, he sobbed out his rage at himself and his own
stupidity.

At the top of the hill he threw himself to the ground and looked down
again over a low wall of basalt. It was hard to see if anything moved
down in that valley of night. Then the sun threw a broken gleam off
polished metal, the rifle barrel, and he saw Einar Lundgard walking
around, looking for him.

The voice came dim in his earphones. "Why don't you give up, Bo? I tell
you, I don't want to kill you."

"Yeh." Bo panted wearily. "I'm sure."

"Well, you can never tell," said Lundgard mildly. "It would be rather
a nuisance to have to keep not only the fair Valeria, but you, tied
up all the way to base. Still, if you'll surrender by the time I've
counted ten--"

"Look here," said Bo desperately, "I've got half the links. If you
don't give up I'll hammer 'em all flat and let you starve."

"And Valeria?" The voice jeered at him. He knew his secret was read. "I
shouldn't have let you bluff me in the first place. It won't happen a
second time. All right: one, two, three--"

Bo could get off this asteroid with no more than the power of his own
legs; a few jets from the emergency blow valve at the bottom of an
air tank would correct his flight as needed to bring him back to the
_Sirius_. He wanted to get up there, and inside warm walls, and take
Valeria in his hands and never let her go again. He wanted to live.

"--six, seven, eight--"

He looked at his gauges. A lot of oxy-helium mixture was gone from
the tanks, but they were big and there was still several atmospheres'
pressure in each. A couple of hours' life. If he didn't exert himself
too much. They screwed directly into valves in the back of his armor,
and--

"--ten. All right, Bo." Lundgard started moving up the slope, light and
graceful as a bird. It was wide and open, no place to hide and sneak up
behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Figures reeled through Bo's mind, senselessly. Mass of the asteroid,
effective radius, escape velocity only a few feet per second, and he
was already on one of the highest points. Brains! he thought with a
shattering sorrow. A lot of good mine have done me!

He prepared to back down the other side of the hill, run as well as
he could, as long as he could, until a bullet splashed his blood or
suffocation thickened it. But I want to fight! he thought through a
gulp of tears. I want to stand up and fight!

Orbital velocity equals escape velocity divided by the square root of
two.

For a moment he lay there, rigid, and his eyes stared at death walking
up the slope but did not see it.

Then, in a crazy blur of motion, he brought his wrench around, closed
it on a nut at one side, and turned.

The right hand air tank unscrewed easily. He held it in his hands, a
three foot cylinder, blind while calculation raced through his head.
What would the centrifugal and Coriolis forces be? It was the roughest
sort of estimate. He had neither time nor data, but--

Lundgard was taking it easy, stopping to examine each patch of shadow
thrown by some gaunt crag, each meteor scar where a man might hide. It
would take him several minutes to reach the hilltop.

Bo clutched the loosened tank in his arms, throwing one leg around it
to make sure, and faced away from Lundgard. He hefted himself, as if
his body were a machine he must use. Then, carefully, he jumped off the
top of the hill.

It was birdlike, dreamlike, thus to soar noiseless over iron
desolation. The sun fell behind him. A spearhead pinnacle clawed after
his feet. The Southern Cross flamed in his eyes.

Downward--get rid of that downward component of velocity. He twisted
the tank, pointing it toward the surface, and cautiously opened the
blow valve with his free hand. Only a moment's exhaust, everything
gauged by eye. Did he have an orbit now?

The ground dropped sharply off to infinity, and he saw stars under
the keel of the world. He was still going out, away. Maybe he had
miscalculated his jump, exceeded escape velocity after all, and was
headed for a long cold spin toward Jupiter. It would take all his
compressed air to correct such a mistake.

Sweat prickled in his armpits. He locked his teeth and refused to open
the valve again.

It was like endless falling, but he couldn't yet be sure if the fall
was toward the asteroid or the stars. The rock spun past him. Another
face came into view. Yes, by all idiot gods, its gravity was pulling
him around!

He skimmed low over the bleakness of it, seeing darkness and starlit
death sliding beneath him. Another crag loomed suddenly in his path,
and he wondered in a harsh clutch of fear if he was going to crash.
Then it ghosted by, a foot from his flying body. He thought he could
almost sense the chill of it.

He was a moon now, a satellite skimming low above the airless surface
of his own midget world. The fracture plain where Lundgard had shot
at him went by, and he braced himself. Up around the tiny planet, and
there was the hill he had left, stark against Sagittarius. He saw
Lundgard, standing on its heights and looking the way he had gone.
Carefully, he aimed the tank and gave himself another small blast to
correct his path. There was no noise to betray him, the asteroid was a
grave where all sound was long buried and frozen.

He flattened, holding his body parallel to the tank in his arms. One
hand still gripped the wrench, the other reached to open the blow
valve wide.

The surge almost tore him loose. He had a careening lunatic moment of
flight in which the roar of escaping gas boiled through his armor and
he clung like a troll to a runaway witch's broom. The sun was blinding
on one side of him.

He struck Lundgard with an impact of velocity and inertia which sent
him spinning down the hill. Bo hit the ground, recoiled, and sprang
after his enemy. Lundgard was still rolling. As Bo approached, he came
to a halt, lifted his rifle dazedly, and had it knocked loose with a
single blow of the wrench.

Lundgard crawled to his feet while Bo picked up the rifle and threw it
off the asteroid. "Why did you do that?"

"I don't know," said Bo. "I should just shoot you down, but I want you
to surrender."

Lundgard drew his wrench. "No," he said.

"All right," said Bo. "It won't take long."

       *       *       *       *       *

When he got up to the _Sirius_, using a tank Lundgard would never need,
Valeria had armed herself with a kitchen knife. "It wouldn't have done
much good," he said when he came through the airlock. She fell into his
arms, sobbing, and he tried to comfort her. "It's all over. All taken
care of. We can go home now."

He himself was badly in need of consolation. The inquiry on Earth would
clear him, of course, but he would always have to live with the memory
of a man stretched dead under a wintery sky. He went aft and replaced
the links. When he came back, Valeria had recovered herself, but as
she watched his methodical preparations and listened to what he had to
tell, there was that in her eyes which he hardly dared believe.

Not him. Not a big dumb slob like him.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Out of the Iron Womb!, by Poul Anderson

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUT OF THE IRON WOMB! ***

***** This file should be named 63633.txt or 63633.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/6/3/63633/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
