The Project Gutenberg EBook of Steel Giants of Chaos, by James R. Adams

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Steel Giants of Chaos

Author: James R. Adams

Release Date: November 7, 2020 [EBook #63668]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STEEL GIANTS OF CHAOS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         Steel Giants Of Chaos

                           By JAMES R. ADAMS

               Earth owed the Wronged Ones a world, and
              Gene Drummond alone could repay that debt.
               Only he knew that payment would save two
             races from extinction--and he was a helpless
                prisoner of the ones he wanted to aid.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Gene Drummond felt a tingle of anticipation course through his being
as he stepped through the open airlock of his small scout ship and
for the first time in more than a year felt the soft soil of Mother
Earth under his booted feet. He stood for a moment, hungrily drinking
in the noise and clamor of New York Spaceport. Around and about him
the shouts and curses of bustling, grease-soaked mechanics and husky
stevedores acted as a balm to his taut nerves. To return to this, after
fourteen grueling months of biological research on Venus, was little
short of heaven itself. The fact that he had been forced, because of
the fatally-poisoned atmosphere of the young world, to conduct his
investigation in brief sallies from the stuffy confines of his ship
served only to heighten this ecstatic conception of his return. The
profoundness of the moment passing, he breathed deeply of the warm,
sweet air and turned to face the fat little mechanic hurrying across
the field.

Puffing noisily for breath, the man skidded to a halt and bent a toothy
grin upon the wiry biologist-explorer. "Bin gone a spell, ain'tcha, Mr.
Drummond?" the fellow wheezed good-naturedly. "Have a nice trip?"

Gene winced at the mechanic's naïvete, then smiled in spite of himself.
"You might call it that," he said thoughtfully. "But _I_ wouldn't!
Venus isn't exactly paradise, Fatboy; take it from me, I know. All the
moons of Saturn couldn't persuade me to go through another year of
privation on that forsaken hunk of cosmic dust. It's a beautiful world,
yes, but one whiff of its poison air and you pretty damn quick lose
interest in landscapes and natural wonders."

"Just the same, I sure wouldn't miss a chance to take it in," Fatboy
opined dreamily. "'Tain't every guy that gets to plant his feet on a
restricted planet. You're pretty dang lucky, if you ask me."

Gene shrugged wearily. "Maybe so. Every man is entitled to his own
opinion, they tell me. Personally, I'll stick by the motto, 'See Terra
Firma first.'"

Gene's tall form suddenly went slack and his eyelids drooped heavily.
"Look, Fatboy, I'm practically asleep on my feet. My next stop is home,
where I won't lose any time in renewing an acquaintance with a real
bed. Take care of the buggy, will you? Give it a complete overhauling
and when you're done with that, put her in storage and forget about
her. Yours truly is taking a long vacation from strange worlds and
stuffy rocket cabins."

Fatboy nodded absently and turned to enter the ship. Snapping his
fingers, as if suddenly remembering something, he wheeled about and
called after Gene, who was striding off across the field: "Hey, Mr.
Drummond! Wait up a minute and lemme tell you what's happened here
while you was gone. It'll make your hair stand straight up and do a
jig!"

"Sorry, Fatboy," Gene shouted back. "I'll shoot the bull with you some
other time. Right now I have important business with the Sandman!"
The tired explorer hurried off before Fatboy could collar him and
regale him with the latest thriller of the multitude of endless,
blood-curdling yarns that constantly made the rounds of a spaceport. He
needed sleep, and that was what he meant to get.

Pausing briefly at a mail-tube, he sent the thick envelope containing a
complete report of his findings on Venus speeding on its way to Science
Center, whereat the document would be given a thorough and analytical
reading by the greatest minds of the system. That account would shatter
the hopes of many, even his own, but it was Gene's duty to report
conditions as they were, not as he wanted them to be. His job was done;
Venus was the Center's baby now.

Rather than wait for a tube-train, he decided to walk the distance to
his apartment, which was but two or three blocks from the spaceport. As
he plodded tiredly along, strange happenings gradually made themselves
known to his dulled senses. Although he was about to drop, Gene stopped
to watch with a tense interest the impromptu ball game taking place on
the walk before him.

A pint-sized batter stepped up to the plate and prepared to knock
himself a home-run. The gamins ranged in the outfield hooted and
leered, trying to shake the nerve of the midget Babe Ruth, but the boy
stood his ground. Gesturing threateningly with the light metal bat, he
spat contemptuously at a fat cockroach scurrying frantically from the
field of action and grimly faced his hecklers. "Play ball!" he bawled.

The pitcher took him at his word, and after executing the tedious rite
of winding up, whipped the ball across the plate at no mean speed. The
boy in the batter's box brought his club down fast to connect solidly
with the sphere in as pretty a swing as Gene ever hoped to witness,
among sandlotters at least.

Gene expected to see the ball go whizzing off down the street, but the
next instant his expectations were abruptly dashed, in a manner that
left the biologist wide-eyed and stunned.

The flashing metal bat met the hard-thrown ball in a resounding impact,
_and instantly exploded into a thousand tiny fragments_!

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene watched incredulously as the gleaming particles rained to the
walk, preceded by a tattered ball that had lost almost all momentum. A
flying piece of metal ripped across the back of his hand, tearing away
an inch or so of skin, but he was oblivious to all but the scene before
him.

The boy at the plate snorted disgustedly and glared down at the remains
of his bat. "That's the fourth bat in six days," he said bitterly. "I'm
quittin' right now. That woulda been a homer, sure's there's rings
around Saturn, and then the bat has to go and fall apart on me. I got
cheated. Nope, I just ain't playin' anymore."

Gene watched the group of urchins disperse, then slowly moved away down
the street, his thoughts centered on the strange occurrence he had just
witnessed.

That bat--it had been made of a very durable metal, metal that wasn't
given to falling apart upon receiving a hard blow. What had caused it
to suddenly lose its stability and disintegrate into a heap of shards
and powder? Something had very definitely gone haywire here on Earth
during his absence. As Gene walked, he found further evidence to bear
out this conclusion.

A rather fat individual came waddling along the walk, making a grand
show of bearing his weight with dignity. His stately reserve turned
suddenly to consternation as the large metal buckle of his belt burst
violently into powder. The fellow gave an alarmed shout and fled
clumsily through the door of an office building, clutching frantically
at his trousers to keep them from completing his embarrassment.

Gene had now entirely forgotten his need for sleep. He had to know the
answer to this perplexing circumstance. One place would know, if the
answer had yet been found, and that was Science Center. He hurried
toward the nearest tube-train terminal, intent on having the mystery
made clear to his mind.

At the terminal he found a message waiting for him. It was from Elliott
Mason, World President, directing Gene to appear before the dignitary
at the earliest possible moment. Apparently the message had missed him
at the spaceport and had been relayed to the tube terminals along his
homeward route. That would indicate utmost urgency, so Gene lost no
time in boarding a train destined for Government Center.

He found the Presidential Mansion in a turmoil. Garrulous diplomats
were everywhere in evidence, and not a few scientists from Science
Center hastened through the halls, bent on mysterious missions.

Gene was immediately admitted to the presence of the president. Mason
sat behind his ornate desk, poring over a thick sheaf of papers. Worry
and anxiety creased his brow, but even so, he flashed a quick smile as
he looked up at the biologist-explorer.

"It's good to see you again, Drummond," Mason began. "Much has happened
here while you were on Venus. Perhaps you are not yet aware of it, but
a world calamity has befallen us, and as yet we have made no headway
whatsoever against it. But before I tell you of our plight, I would
like to know of your findings on Venus."

"I'm afraid it's hopeless, sir," Gene sighed. "As you know, we cannot
colonize Venus, since our respiratory systems could not long stand up
under its poisonous atmosphere.

"As for the native Venusians, they are already man's equal, physically,
having a rate of evolution considerably faster than ours. But mentally,
they are not much more than equal to a chicken. For some strange
reason, their mental development does not keep pace with that of their
bodies. Consequently, it will be many years, possibly centuries, before
the Venusians are capable of rational thought.

"Thus you can see there is no hope of interplanetary commerce with
them. By the time they reach a point of sufficient intelligence to
realize the desirability of trade between worlds, our depleted metal
resources will be gone, and man will likely be on his way down the
evolutionary scale. Science Center has my full report. If I have been
hazy on any point, they will give you the complete facts."

Mason sighed heavily and lowered his head a moment. "This new scourge
with which we have become afflicted also concerns metal," he spoke in
a low tone. "To give you the entire facts would require a long and
detailed explanation, for which there is not time.

"However, the gist of it is that all our metals, including raw ores,
are slowly losing their molecular coherence. Sections of every
continent have come under the influence of the deadly visitation.
Already two of New York's largest structures have collapsed when their
girder frameworks suddenly turned to powder. Many lives have been lost;
tube-train and all other modes of transportation have become extremely
risky.

"The condition, which first appeared a month or so ago, is slowly
spreading to finally encompass all Earth. Science Center has discovered
the phenomenon is not a natural one, but is rather an inexplicable ray
emanating from somewhere in space.

"Earth is in great danger, Drummond, and someone must volunteer to
eliminate that danger. Knowing our system as you do, I believe you are
the man best qualified to track down the ray to its source and destroy
it, if at all possible.

"Accordingly, I have had prepared a brochure, embodying all the facts
you will need. Science Center has devised a special tracer mechanism,
which when directed upon the ray, will clearly reveal its path through
the void, and which will be installed in your ship upon your acceptance
of the task. I--"

Gene held up a respectful hand. "I believe I have heard enough, sir.
You were going to say the decision is entirely mine and that refusal
would not be held against me. No need. I accept!"

Mason stood up and extended a warm hand. "Your courage will not go
unnoticed, boy. The thanks of all Earth will go with you into the void."


                                  II

Gene nodded sleepily as his ship, _New Frontiers_, drove forward
through space. The outermost planets were now far behind in the
all-surrounding blackness, and a vague doubt was beginning to worry his
mind.

Suppose the malignant ray did not originate in this system? Science
Center had naturally assumed that the radiation came from some
uncharted asteroid or rogue world within the system. But if it didn't,
then what? Should he return to Earth and report failure? Gene dismissed
the thought as soon as it entered his head.

Yet, as the great, staring orb that was Pluto slipped away behind him,
the doubt grew stronger and made of itself a steady clamor that would
not pass unheeded.

His ship still followed the swath of the ray; a never-ending, invisible
beam that would seem to sprout from the very emptiness of space itself.

Mason had warned Gene that he might face untold danger at the ray's
source, but the explorer could not see how that danger could come from
any living thing. Here in the farthermost reaches of the system, far
from the warmth of the sun, what strange organic creature could find
sustenance?

He stifled a yawn, fighting doggedly to keep his heavy lids from
closing in slumber. Sleep was out of the question. He could take no
chance of losing the unseen trail of that devilish radiation, so that
meant he had to go it without the help of the automatic controls.

In spite of Gene's efforts to remain awake, his brown-thatched head
slowly lowered against his chest. Tortured eyes no longer registered
the monotonous gray of the ship's cabin as leaden lids closed over
them. He was asleep.

Instants later, the insistent clang of a warning bell penetrated
through his torpor, whipping away the blanket of sleep and bringing the
drowsing biologist at once to alert wakefulness.

He reached out frantically, his fingers flying unerringly over the
myriad controls, jabbing viciously at the studs regulating the
batteries of rocket tubes.

_Something was pulling, tugging, at the small ship, drawing it down,
held in a relentless clutch that grew stronger with each passing
moment!_

The ship surged with power; steel crossbeams groaned and screeched,
threatening to buckle under the strain placed on them. And still it
rushed downward!

He cursed wildly and punched hard at the stud controlling the forward
tubes. The craft lurched drunkenly under this new force, then continued
its downward flight, moving not quite so fast now.

For the first time since awakening, he glanced at the Vizio-screen, and
what he saw rooted him to the spot, eyes dilated with astonishment. The
_New Frontiers_ was hurtling down on a planet, dark and foreboding; a
world where no world should be! It loomed in the screen like a great
black eight-ball--and he was definitely behind it! Now he was entering
an atmosphere, according to the instruments. He jiggled the dials, but
the reading did not change. What wouldn't the astronomers of Earth give
to know about this!

What manner of world was this rushing up to meet him? He could not
know. But his instruments told him that in a very short while the
first Earthian feet would walk upon this mystery planet. _If_ he lived
through the crash.

Wrestling mightily with the controls, he succeeded in bringing the
craft out of its dive and leveled off in a long skim above the sphere's
surface, now close below.

He hunched tensely over the controls, a thin film of cold sweat
standing out on his brow. Hardened though he was, he could not help
but feel a quickening fear of the inexplicable world he was fast
approaching.

A formidable upjutting of rock suddenly reared up directly in his path,
completely blacking out the screen!

He held his breath as his finger nicked out and impaled the stud
operating the forward tubes. Once more fire burst from the nose of the
ship, roaring out to meet the unyielding wall of rock in a titanic
impact.

The _New Frontiers_ shuddered to a halt, hung a second in midair, then
abruptly slid forward and down. This was it!

Gene threw his arms over his eyes as ship and mountain met violently,
throwing him from his seat and smashing his helmet-protected head
against the control panel. Overhead a crossbeam groaned tormentedly
and gave way under the stress, while outside an avalanche of stone,
dislodged from the lofty heights, smashed against the thick hull in a
steady rain--setting up such a din as only the forces of nature could.

Then all was still.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene climbed unsteadily to his feet and felt tenderly of his throbbing
head. It still rested atop his shoulders. A wonder he hadn't been
stretched out for the count. Except for minor bruises and cuts he was
no worse for the experience.

A quick look about assured him that the damage to the interior of the
ship was slight. The crumpled girder would not impair the craft's
flight.

Clambering outside, he found one of the stern tubes smashed beyond
repair. No matter. He could replace it with one of the two spare tubes
the _New Frontiers_ carried.

Altogether, the small scouter was not much worse for its experience. It
would take but a few hours to install the new tube, and the battered
but faithful ship would be ready to blast off to new adventures.

Gene turned curiously and took up a minute inspection of this tenth
planet's terrain. Bleak and forbidding, jumbled masses of black rock
stretch away to the horizon. Here and there, patches of slatish soil,
naked and sterile, contended with the ever-present stone for surface
space. He became aware of an insidious chill gnawing at his bones.

Cautiously lifting the air helmet he had donned before emerging from
the ship, he sniffed tentatively of the dry, thin air. It seemed to
have no ill effects on him. He removed the helmet and stood irresolute,
wondering what next to do.

That problem was solved at once. Over the horizon came a howling,
clamorous horde of man-shaped creatures, brandishing crudely fashioned
spears tipped with sharpened stone, making straightway for the _New
Frontiers_!

Gene's hand went to his hip and came up bearing his energy-ray. Any
question of the creatures' intentions was immediately dispelled as one
of them jerked to a halt and flung his spear hard at the explorer.

Gene ducked and came up blasting. A grim smile was on his lips as the
rabble came on in spite of his withering fire, screeching like harpies
as they closed in on him.

He found time to wonder how the beings could see, for no eyes were
evident on the flat, hateful faces. Wicked fangs gleamed in the gaping
mouths; set squarely between where the eyes should have been was a
diminutive, almost non-existent nose. Huge, batlike ears gave the
finishing touch to their grotesque appearance.

Gene felt a deep loathing for these weird denizens of a world that
should not be. That abhorrence was reflected in the steady blast of his
energy-ray, which cut a wide swath in the creatures' ranks.

But still they advanced, shrieking and gnashing their teeth in black
hate. They flung their spears with such clumsiness that Gene found them
fairly easy to side-step, but now crude stone knives were brought into
play, knives that were deadly, in spite of their unwieldiness. Once the
beings gained close enough to use those weapons, the biologist would
meet with a quick end.

[Illustration: _Gene cut the half-men down one after another, but still
they came on._]

He fought silently, striving to work around the ship to the air lock,
but the hideous half-men divined his purpose and swiftly moved to flank
him, cutting off all escape. Gene cursed explosively and battled all
the fiercer.

Then he gaped in surprise as a spear whizzed past him and sank deep in
the breast of his nearest attacker. A look of fear crossed the features
of the ferocious barbarians, and as one they turned to face this new
enemy.

Gene, too, turned to look at the small band of sturdy beings advancing
nimbly over the rocky ground, filling the air with well-aimed spears
even as they came.

His assailants made a show of standing firm under the onslaught,
screeching defiantly and launching their spears haphazardly at the
newcomers.

The ranks wavered and suddenly broke, then the horrible monstrosities
were fleeing, chattering their hate as they went scrambling away over
the boulders. Now and again one would pause and turn to hurl his
spear at Gene in a last venomous attempt to do him in. Then all had
disappeared in the far distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene breathed a sigh of relief and wiped sweat from his forehead in
spite of the chill air. "What a reception!" He grinned wryly. "Saturn's
Rings! The tracer surely developed a bug and took me off course. These
people are nothing more than savages. I can't believe them capable of
constructing an intricate ray and directing it on Earth. The whole
thing is crazy, just plain, crazy!"

His rescuers hurried up, waving their spears and shouting in a strange
tongue.

Gene could not understand the words, but he guessed at their meaning
from the triumphal air in which they were spoken. A crude tongue, at
best, but then these wild tribesmen needed no elaborate language to
express their simple minds.

Now the tribesmen, clad in shaggy furs, clustered about him, feeling
wonderingly of his clothes, muttering exclamations of surprise as they
noted the five digits on each of his hands. Their own gnarled, hairy
paws boasted but four fingers to each.

A towering, rawboned fellow pushed his way through the mob and stopped
before Gene. The man--for men these people were, in spite of their
crudity and animal traits--swept his eyes over the explorer in a cool
glance of appraisal.

Gene did a bit of sizing-up of his own. The giant's high forehead
suggested intelligence of a sort; the clear gray eyes told of courage
and loyalty. Plainly, the man was a leader among his people.

Abruptly, the fellow turned and uttered a command to the foremost
tribesmen. Two stepped forward and took up positions to each side of
Gene. They prodded him gently in the ribs and pointed to the horizon.
He took this to be a signal to start moving, and he obliged with
reluctance, for his overpowering need of sleep now threatened to drop
him at each step. How long they walked, the biologist did not know.
His guides were practically dragging him by the time the party came
into a city of caves, hewn in the jagged wall of a desolate valley.
He was led to one of these caverns, mid the shouted questions of the
quick-gathered townsfolk and the catcalls of unkempt children.

Blessed sleep rushed up to meet him as the two tribesmen deposited him
on a pallet of dirty furs and withdrew from the chamber. The world
could wait; the body must rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene learned much of this strange planet in the next few days. A
wizened, white-bearded old man came daily to instruct him in the
tribe's language--a simple speech which Gene, a student of ancient
tongues, found easy to master.

"Our life is harsh," the talkative patriarch told the explorer between
lessons. "Game is scarce and there is little vegetation. Once we grew
crops, but now the soil is sterile and bears little, but for wild
vegetables and fruits in those isolated places where the ground is yet
fertile. This is a world of rock, my son. No creature of flesh and bone
was meant to trod here."

The man spoke truth. All about, the valley lay barren, the sandy soil
smothered under by tons of rock. Gene thought it a marvel that the
tribesmen were able to exist at all in such a place. They must have
great courage to fight such a hopeless battle against the forces of
nature.

On his fifth day in the cave city, Gene was summoned to the dwelling
of Old One, the tribal chief. There, too, was the gray-eyed giant whom
Gene had first met the day of his arrival.

Old One raised a withered hand to signify peace, and the biologist
solemnly did likewise. The venerable man nodded approval and settled
back on his fur-covered stone bench.

"It stuns my senses," he murmured. "Kac, say again this youth was
spawned of a beast that walks through air."

"Truly, he was, Father," the dark-haired man said gravely. "The Beast
People were besetting him and bearing him under at the time our hunting
party came upon the scene. The spineless creatures fled at mere sight
of our warriors, though there was a far greater number of them than our
small party could boast. The beast that walked through air still rests
where it fell from the sky. I fear it is dead, for no longer does it
give out its breath of fire."

"Not dead, but sleeping," Gene said, wisely refraining from burdening
the simple minds of these people with scientific principles. He noticed
that many tribes-people were silently drifting into the cavern, curious
to see this strange being who was so like themselves, yet so different.

"Now, Old One," he addressed the chief in a respectful tone, "I know
so little of your world. I am as an old woman in a strange cave;
lost. Tell me of the Beast People. How do they see--for they have no
eyes--and how is it there is so much animosity between your races?
Perhaps, if their sin is great enough, I will help you against them."

Old One frowned and thoughtfully fingered his dingy gray beard.
"Nothing can be done about the Beast People. Long ago, they came from a
world beyond worlds. At the coming of our ancestors, the two races took
up a constant war for possession of this cave city.

"The legend is that they, too, were spawned of a great beast that
walked through air. Their air-beast, just as yours, fell from the
sky with a great crash. But this sky-monster slept the sleep of no
awakening, and for them there was no returning.

"In truth, they have no eyes, but my father once told me of the manner
in which they find their way about. When afoot, they send out squeals,
imperceptible to our ears, which come back to them from the obstacles
and pitfalls they would avoid and thus guide them to an open path.

"Never, since that far day in the past, have others of their kind
come to plague this world. It is my belief that the Beast People's
sky-monster rebelled against them and carried them far away from
their goal, wherever it may have been. For that, their brothers who
searched--if search they did--could not find their spoor and perforce
gave them up for lost.

"There is more to their history, but it is not for your ears. Methinks,
it could well be that you are one of the Beast People; for surely those
of the home world have changed in the many tens of years since these
few of their kind were stranded here."

Old One paused to glance quizzically at Gene. His bewrinkled old
forehead drew tightly together as he studied the wiry biologist.

"Whence come you?" he asked sharply. "If from the world beyond worlds,
then truly you are a Beast Man. If from a world that is sister to this
sphere of rock, then does my tribe welcome you and call you brother.
May your tongue speak truth, man of the skies."

All in the cave were tense, silent--waiting for the man's answer.
Gene took a step nearer Old One's bench, calm and confident. A world
beyond worlds would imply a planet of another system; thus, being from
a planet akin to this upon which he had been cast, he spoke without
apprehension:

"I name myself Gene Drummond, and I come from Earth--the third world
nearest the sun."

He looked about, expecting the tribesmen to loose shouts of welcome;
but the grim silence only became more forbidding and the people drew
back, as if from a leper. Gene leaped forward.

"Old One!" he cried in the aged man's face. "Explain to them that I am
not of the Beast People. I am an Earthling; your brother!"

There was infinite sadness in Old One's gaze. "Nay," he said somberly,
"you are not of the Beast People, and no more so are you our brother.
By the gods, you are of a race a thousandfold more loathsome than the
Beast People!"


                                  III

Gene sat dejectedly at the mouth of his cave, dully staring out at the
black sameness of the destitute valley. Two stalwart Wronged Ones, as
Kac had termed his tribe, stood at the opening, watching the man with
troubled eyes.

Thus had it been for the past week, since the day Old One had
pronounced those dread words condemning Gene and all like him. True, he
was allowed to roam the cave city and observe the ways of the tribe,
but always the guards were with him.

What terrible deed could have been done by Earth's people to so bring
the scorn of an entire race upon them? He had mulled over this night
after night, but the answer was beyond his grasp. Those of the tribe
had never again spoken of it after that one accusing moment in the case
of their chief.

He smiled wryly. Faring forth from Earth to solve the mystery of the
destructive ray, he had run squarely into another, far greater puzzle.
And when he found the answer to one, then he would surely solve the
other; for he now felt certain that the two were in some way connected.

The solution must come soon. He had spent much time reading the
brochure given to him by President Mason, and in it Science Center had
stated that the molecular patterns of metal could not long withstand
the disrupting force. If surcease did not come shortly, there was no
guessing what great catastrophe would befall Earth. Perhaps the entire
sphere would disintegrate and fall away in space!

Another riddle he had come across was that of the always-guarded cavern
in the center of the city, about which all life in the community
revolved. It seemed as if the Wronged Ones lived only to gather each
night in that chamber and--worship?

All that his guards would tell him about the place was that it was
called the Cave of Talkers. Old One had warned him never to go near it,
and the guards were careful to see that he heeded the admonition.

With such things troubling his mind, he retired into the cave and
stretched out on the miserable pile of furs. Soon he made out the
glow of a tiny campfire outside, about which the guards huddled in the
gathering gloom.

Strange people were these. It was very seldom they smiled. The greater
part of the time sadness was stamped deep in their features; sadness
that spoke eloquently of a great tragedy that had come to them in the
dim far past. Plague, perhaps?

Gene frowned and rolled over on his side. So many questions; so few
answers. He yawned sleepily and closed his eyes. Action. That was what
he wanted; action.... Then his mind became as the darkness.

He did not fare forth into the city next morning, but remained in the
cave, putting into action a plan that had come to him during the night.
The guards were not in evidence at the cavern's mouth, but he knew they
were near at hand. The moment he came out, there they would be, intent
on carrying out their sworn duty.

Crouched in a deep recess of the chamber, he played his energy-ray on
the wall before him, shielding his eyes from the bright glare with a
gloved hand.

He thanked his lucky stars that the simple-minded tribesmen had never
thought to take the gun from him. With its aid he would at least be
able to steal from the cave this night, all unknown to the guards, and
make his way to the Cave of Talkers, there to learn what went on inside
that mysterious chamber.

The ray bit ever deeper in the hard stone, gouging out a narrow tunnel
through which Gene could worm his way into the adjoining cave--that of
Mree-na, the patriarch, from whom Gene had learned the language of the
Wronged Ones.

Mree-na would not be home. Being too old to hunt, he spent his days
in going among the people to hear their woes and offer his counsel in
inter-family disputes. Thus Gene worked without fear of detection.

The hours sped by, and still he labored--determined to win through by
nightfall. If he had judged right, he would emerge in the far reaches
of Mree-na's abode, where the shadows were heavy and where the feeble
old man never ventured.

The wall was not as thick as he had expected. The call of the returning
hunters was in his ears as the last foot of matter gave before the
hissing ray and crashed to the floor of Mree-na's cave, mid a thunder
of echoes.

Gene stuck his head through the opening, glanced about, then withdrew.
The way was clear. When the tribe met tonight in the Cave of Talkers,
Gene Drummond would be the uninvited guest.

Brushing the telltale dust from his clothes he walked casually from the
cavern and started down the long, sloping trail leading to the valley
below. His guards hurried up and one grasped him gently by the shoulder.

"There you cannot go," he said firmly. "Old One knows all. You would
go yonder where the sleeping sky-beast lies and flee this world,
but Old One and his people would not have it so ... ever," he added
significantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Damn it!" Gene exploded. "I'm starving for a good meal. I've got
plenty of canned food in my ship; give me a couple of warriors to carry
it here and I'll spread out a feast for your tribe that will make the
slop you eat taste like--like slop!"

The two men did not cringe before his wrath, but stood their ground;
their sad eyes growing even sadder. For a long moment there was
silence; then the one who rested his hand on Gene's shoulder spoke.

"Man of the third planet, you have come among a saddened people; a
people to whom a great--nay, the _greatest_--injustice was done in the
dim, yet vivid, past. My tongue is pledged to speak not of this, but
know you it is not by our will we are here. Know you, also, this slop
you cry out against should call to you as like calls to like, for long
did you wallow in it!"

Gene said nothing, but turned and stumbled away. He realized now that
these barbarians meant to keep him here for as long as he should live.
They wanted him to know some of their misery, their sorrow; to know
the hopelessness they knew, and the futility of struggling with an
environment that gave not before the onslaught of humanity. Why?

He was feeling like the lowest heel in the world by the time night
fell. But he soon snapped out of it when he heard the tramp of many
feet outside as the tribes-people passed on their way to the Cave of
Talkers.

Hell! He didn't owe these savages anything, though they tried their
best to give him that impression. Maybe their plaint of injustice done
them was just an act to cover up some insidious activity going on in
the great cave!

Shaking with excitement, he wriggled through his secret tunnel and
dropped cat-like to the floor of the adjacent cave. A quick look about
assured him Mree-na had already left for the big doings. He hurried to
the mouth of the chamber and stealthily peered outside.

A few yards away, the two guards squatted on boulders in front of the
cave he had just vacated, talking in low voices about the night's
activities. They expressed disappointment at not being able to attend
the nightly meetings, but Old One had cautioned them never to go so far
from their post as to allow their charge a chance to escape.

Gene took a deep breath and darted out of the cavern, running silently
over the rough ledge to the next chamber. He crouched in its maw and
looked back at the guards. They sat unmoving, except to reach up now
and then to adjust their fur robes in an effort to shut out the biting
cold.

He moved away, satisfied they had not seen him.

As he neared the Cave of Talkers he became aware of a steady vibration
of the rock underfoot. He had never before been this close to the
worshipping place of the Wronged Ones, if worshipping place it was.

No guards were here; they, too, had gone inside to participate in the
proceedings. Gene eased into the vast cavern, staying close to the wall
so as not to be seen. A rumbling as of giant sobbing beat against his
ears, accompanied by the droning undertone of a rhythmic chant.

He stood at the head of the broad stairs leading down to the cave
proper; and from there he looked upon that which brought a gasp of
stark incredulity to his lips.

Below, the Wronged Ones knelt on the floor of the cavern, heads bowed
in veneration as they offered up the monotonous prayer. All were there:
women, children, battle-scarred warriors, and aged folk who could but
scarcely assume a kneeling position.

All this, he had more or less expected; for after all, these people
were but superstitious savages who looked to their gods for guidance.
But the thing that astounded him was the two colossal objects upon
which the Wronged Ones bestowed their homage.

In the center of the ring of kneeling tribesmen stood twin machines,
throbbing with power and sending off a weird effulgence. From one,
a long, tapering tube thrust up through the ceiling of the cavern,
vibrating violently under some great stress. Gene pressed nearer the
wall, unconsciously fearful of the tremendous energy surging through
that giant machine.

The other object of worship vaguely resembled an outsized dynamo,
though such as Gene had never before seen. In truth, the resemblance
was so little as to be all but non-existent.

Great comets! How did such a mass of intricate machinery get here, in
this underground vault, on a world where metal was not known? And what
was its purpose?

A narrow ledge ran around the chamber's walls, and Gene moved along
this to a spot where he could look down on the scene without risk of
being seen.

Now and again the droning supplication halted, and during these pauses
Old One arose and moved about the machines. In his hand he carried a
small skin sack. This he tilted over certain parts of the whirring,
pounding colossi, and from it poured a thin trickle of what could be
nothing but oil.

This ceremony performed, Old One moved back, then once more the
gathered throng took up the melancholy strain of the interrupted
invocation. Above all, the machines hummed and sang with unbelievable
power; deathless power. Yet, it seemed the prolonged roar faltered now
and then; stopped for the barest fraction of an instant. At such times,
the multitude groaned; then prayed all the more fervently.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene's mind was in tumult. This world was so unlike Earth: it did not
revolve on its axis, the false night of the valley was caused by dense
clouds of dust or some other substance which, carried by the wind,
passed over in irregular periods; thus one day would be longer or
shorter than another. He doubted that a thorough search of the sphere
would turn up enough metal to be worth the hunting, yet here were two
giant machines, idols of a primitive people who could not conceivably
grasp the mechanics involved. What a world! A world of riddles, Gene
thought absently.

Then, a wild shout stabbed through his thoughts and he jerked
startledly, almost losing his foothold on the treacherous ledge. The
urgent cry came again, nearer the cave now, and with it a frightful
uproar that raised the short hairs on the nape of Gene's neck. He could
make out the yell now: "Out! Out! The Beast People come!"

The Wronged Ones heard also, and poured up the stairs with cries of
wrath at thus having their ritual broken short, snatching up spears
from the floor as they went.

Gene hung back until the last of them had passed outside, then he, too,
flung himself through the cave mouth. His hand clutched the deadly
energy-ray, finger ready on the trigger to unloose a barrage of hissing
death on the repulsive creatures assailing the city. He did owe the
Wronged Ones something for saving his life, even though they had not
treated him as nicely as they might have.

Chaos met his eyes. Grouped together as they were, the Wronged Ones
offered a perfect target for the spears of the Beast People. Screaming
women and children floundered about, colliding with the warriors and
making it difficult for them to cast their weapons with accuracy. A
great sorrow clutched his heart as he saw old Mree-na go down, his
hands tearing at a shaft imbedded deep in his chest. Of all on this
world, the withered patriarch and Kac alone had been friendly toward
Gene. The rest bore him no hate, no ill will; but their eyes never
looked upon him but that they looked with accusation.

He pushed to the fore of the throng, brusquely shoving aside all in his
path. A long line of Beast People stretched across the valley floor,
moving forward rapidly and determinedly. Gene could see they were set
on winning the city this time, no matter what the cost. They carried
many firebrands, and some of these they threw among the disorganized
foe. Cries of agony rent the air as the blazing missiles ignited hair
and fur garments. Now, even the staunch warriors dropped their weapons
to beat at the tormenting flames. Utter defeat was hard upon them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene felt a hand on his shoulder and turned to find Kac standing beside
him, desperation in his eyes. The young giant paused to launch a spear
at the oncoming horde, then ducked behind a boulder, dragging the
biologist with him.

The chief's son looked wonderingly for a moment at his strange
companion, then spoke quickly: "I do not know how you managed to
escape, Gene, but somehow I find myself glad to have you here in
this hour of crisis. See, even now my people fall by the tens; it
will be slaughter when the Beast People close with our warriors for
hand-to-hand battles. Can not you, a man capable of bending a fiery
sky-monster to your will, find a way to turn back this vermin that
would bring annihilation to all in this city?"

Gene peeped over the rounded stone and snapped a shot at the nearest
half-man. The thing fell, its head completely blown away. Kac gasped
and backed away in fear, for although he had seen the Earthling use the
gun when trapped near the ship, he still thought of it as some form of
black magic.

"Small loss to those monstrosities," Gene murmured. "There's swarms of
them." Then in a louder voice, "I might think of something shortly. But
first we must rally your men and get the women and children to safety.
Then we can work on a method of counterattack."

Old One joined them and Gene quickly gave the men their instructions.
Leaders that they were, he was certain they would succeed in the task
of bringing order to the panic-stricken community. He was to hold off
the half-men until the two could draw up an effective defense.

The chief and his son hurried away to exhort the tribe and Gene took
his post behind the large boulder. He noticed the hideous ones were not
advancing so rapidly now. They were reluctant to face again the fearful
death of fire that had done for so many of them the first time they had
come upon the explorer.

Kac raced up, flung himself down beside Gene, just as a spear whizzed
overhead and clattered to the ground a few yards away.

"They are poor marksmen," he laughed mirthlessly. Then, with pride in
his voice, "Gene, the warriors have already rallied, and of their own
accord! They are ready to fight the invader."

A look assured Drummond that the Wronged Ones had indeed come back
fighting; they scorned the protection of the rocks, but stood straight
and firm, casting their shafts with a trueness that took great toll of
the disappointed Beast People, who had thought victory already in their
grasp. The long line moved ever slower.

"Well, that was certainly taken care of in a hurry!" he said
admiringly. "What about the women and children--are they safe?"

"Yes," Kac nodded. "The aged men of the tribe even now aid Old One in
herding the weak ones into the caves. Now we may fight unhindered. Now
shall the vermin know the wrath of my people!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Gene did not voice his fears, but he was afraid the rally had come too
late. The attacking force had gained too far up the side of the valley,
and with their greatly superior numbers they could soon squelch the
opposition in a man-to-man fight. It was uncanny, the way the eyeless
beings moved over and around the obstructions in their path, as if they
knew the location of each from memory. Even so, they were about the
clumsiest things he knew of.

The valley was brighter now, and looking up he could see a dim glow
filtering through the heavy clouds. It had been a short night, and that
was well for the tribe; for heretofore they had been forced to direct
their weapons to the target by the light of torches dropped by fallen
half-men.

But even though the advantage of daylight was now with them, they were
forced to give back before the doggedly advancing enemy. Soon they
would be forced to seek refuge in the caves. And as the foul creatures
came on there rose up an endless, terrifying scream of hate. The fall
of the cave city was near at hand.

Gene had been thinking about the things he had witnessed in the Cave
of Talkers, and now he turned excitedly to the man beside him, a
desperate plan taking shape in his mind.

"Listen, Kac! Go now--and may your feet sprout wings--to the Cave of
Talkers and bring from there the sack of liquid used in your ritual. We
may yet save the city, my friend."

Fear was in Kac's eyes, but only a moment. Surely the gods would give
up their sustenance to save their devout people. He hurried off,
bending low and weaving.

While he waited, Gene poured a steady fire at the abhorrent foe. Still,
not a gap showed in that long, undulating line. The moment one creature
fell, another rushed in to take his place.

Kac returned shortly, carrying the big skin sack of oil.

"This is all we have," he apologized. "The plants that produce this are
scarce, and so we never have a very large supply."

"We can only hope it will be enough," Gene said grimly, taking the
sack. "Here, give me your spear."

Kac turned over the long shaft and the biologist quickly poured oil
over it. Then he inserted the shaft of the slippery weapon in the
leatherlike carrying strap of the sack. While doing this, a torch fell
at his side in a burst of sparks and he snatched it up, smiling.

"Thanks, sucker! I'll be returning the favor shortly! Now, Kac, here's
what you must do: Take the torch and when I give the signal, touch it
to the oilsack. Then stand away in a hurry. That clear?"

Kac grinned in quick understanding of Gene's plan and enthusiastically
prepared for his part in it. He crouched low, smoking firebrand ready
in his hand, while Gene climbed to his feet and hoisted the odd
ensemble over his shoulder. Gauging distance, he adjusted the angle of
the spear, then took a firm stance.

"Let 'er rip!"

Kac leaped up and thrust the torch against the saturated sack, then
threw himself to the ground and rolled frantically away.

The bag blazed up instantly, and just as swift did Gene whip the spear
up and forward. The roaring ball of fire left the shaft in a high arc,
sailing straight toward the unsuspecting Beast People.

Down it came, bursting at the feet of the nearest half-men. Flaming
oil spewed over everything within a wide radius. It ate away flesh and
hair with a voracity that was dreadful to see. Living torches raced
madly about in circles, screaming at the top of their voices--then to
collapse in smouldering heaps, the evil life within them fled before
the cleansing flame.

All along the line, creatures stopped dead in their tracks, an
unreasoning fear striking deep in their hearts, if hearts they had.
They could not see the cause of disaster, but they could hear its roar
and the shrieks of their dying fellows. To them, it was as if a raging
holocaust had leaped from the bowels of the earth to gulp them in.
Then, as once before, the Beast People gave up to panic, and the solid
ranks suddenly disintegrated. Pell-mell they fled, back into and across
the valley, putting distance between themselves and the horror that
supposedly pursued them.

A jubilant shout went up from the defenders of the city: "The accursed
ones are beaten! The man from Earth has this day given us final
victory! Hail the man from Earth--our brother!"

A great pride welled in Gene's breast, but still his mind was troubled.
Now he had won the friendship of the Wronged Ones, but were the Beast
People truly vanquished? He thought not. Even with the enormous
casualties they had sustained, they still far outnumbered Old One's
tribe. They were desperate; this was a bitterly cold, dying world, and
outside this valley, without shelter, a person unhardened to the low
temperature would soon perish. The horrible creatures were vigorous and
rugged, but the cold was becoming more marked, year by year. Even they
could not long bear such hardships. He had a hunch they had not gone
far from the valley, and would soon launch another attack on the city.


                                  IV

Part of Gene's hunch proved correct. The Beast People were camped just
outside the valley, this being verified by scouts sent out from the
city late that evening. It was logical to suppose that the suspected
attack would also become reality in the near future. There was little
sleep for him that night. He lay with eyes open, thinking--but little
did he solve.

Kac personally brought Gene's breakfast to him the following morning.
The sad face of the chief's son was even sadder this day.

"Many of my people shall no longer know the hardships of life," he told
the explorer. "One hundred of them fell before the onslaught of the
Beast People. And--sorrow floods my heart--women and children account
for more than half of the dead.

"Gene, my friend, my tribe is grateful for your succor in its hour of
peril. But for you, the caves would now be in the filthy hands of our
most despised enemies. Yea, you have proved yourself a warrior, and we
belatedly welcome you as a brother."

Gene was already engrossed in the food, and an unintelligible grunt
was the best he could do in the way of a reply. Kac sat on the floor,
watching him with wonder--and more than a touch of pity. His brow was
furrowed with thought, and suddenly he spoke:

"You are not like those, those _others_, Gene. The legends tell us
_they_ were cruel, merciless. But you are kind, just, and your mind
knows no deceit. Spawn of the _others_ you may well be, yet their
inhuman traits dwell not in you."

Gene looked up puzzledly. "Hey! What in Deimos' Dungeons are you
talking about? Who are these _others_, and what makes you think I'm
in cahoots with them? Listen, Kac, I'm an Earthman--flesh and blood,
bone and hair, every single atom. Before Man, there were no intelligent
creatures on Earth; and as for Man himself doing you some great wrong,
it could not possibly have happened. Your planet is unknown to my
world; I myself discovered it only by the most unusual circumstances.
You've got me dizzy with all this talk about supposed wrongs, so how
about putting our cards on the table?"

Kac rose, nodding gravely. "Thus was it foretold. Time has erased all
memory of the evil deed of your race. But our remembrance of it is as
a flame that grows not weaker, but stronger, with the years. Come now,
Gene Drummond, and learn of your sin."

Gene followed the tall barbarian from the cavern, excited and more
than a little apprehensive. As they walked, he noted that many warriors
were on guard throughout the community. That was good. Looking up, he
noticed for the first time that a naked, black mountain reared into the
sky but a half-mile or so back from the valley wall wherein the caves
were situated. That, too, was good. The Beast People would be forced to
come at them from the fore.

The trail led to the Cave of Talkers. Down the broad steps, across the
flat stone floor, they went wordless and in awe. The giant machines
loomed before them, throbbing and pounding with such a clamor as to
bring Gene's hands to his ears.

He soon grew accustomed to the noise, however, and went on with Kac to
a small niche carved in a wall of the chamber. A vault rested in the
recess, and from it Kac took a long metal tube; from this, a musty skin
scroll.

The towering tribesman turned and looked deep into Gene's eyes. "Now,"
he said, "now shall I read to you from this ancient record, written by
those long dead for all Wronged Ones to study and learn therefrom of
the terrible injustice done to their ancestors. It is not pleasant,
Gene. Will you hear it?"

The biologist nodded, a tight feeling around his heart. What unhappy,
haunting knowledge was about to come to his mind?

"It is short," Kac murmured. "Those who wrote it knew so little of what
actually happened. Too, the language in which it is written is all but
lost to us. But it is my fancy that when you have hearkened to these
few words, little space will remain in your mind for other thoughts."

"Go ahead, read it," Gene said hoarsely. "I don't run from the truth,
even though it may cut to the quick."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kac began; reading swiftly, yet comprehensively: "Long were we, the
Wronged Ones, happy on our beautiful world. Like a green jewel in
space it was; a treasure lost from the bosom of the Mother Sun in some
careless moment.

"True it is that we were of simple minds; even so, great things were
destined for our race. As evolution worked its miracles the ignorance
that was born with us dropped away, and in its place came a high order
of intelligence.

"We built, tilled the soil, and forever sought new knowledge to enrich
our hungry minds. Our civilization was rising, forging ahead. The
fertile soil gave abundantly of its treasure; power for our machines
came from the Mother Sun itself.

"Then, disaster fell upon our world. Through space, with a far greater
speed than light, stabbed an insidious ray--stealing our minds, our
egos. Our bodies remained, but the egos that controlled them were
drained away and hurled through the void.

"Great was our consternation to find ourselves on an alien world,
inhabiting alien bodies; and bitter were we when we realized the egos
that had formerly possessed these organic vehicles were now dwelling in
_our_ bodies, on our own fair world. A planet of deadness was this upon
which our intellects had been cast, but we were determined to live on
and someday know vengeance.

"In a word: in one horrible second, and much against our will, we had
traded worlds with a desperate, dying race--our sphere of abundance for
theirs of desolation.

"The machine with which the usurpers had accomplished this was beyond
our comprehension, though our scientists worked long and feverishly to
solve its secret. Long after, we came to the conclusion the machine had
been captured from the Beast People and one of their number forced to
operate it.

"Truly, we found a dying half-man in this cavern. He had been poisoned,
so we could not force him to operate the machine for us and take back
the planet and organisms that were rightfully ours. Not until many
years after did we succeed in capturing a number of the Beast People,
only to find they had lost the knowledge of the ego-transposer's
working. They were devolving at a rapid pace, and soon we, too, began
to know the ravages of degeneration, though it did not act with such
speed on us--perhaps only for the reason that we were determined to
stave it off and one day return to our much-mourned world.

"Here were we, a rising race, now doomed to extinction by a treacherous
people too weak to face the destiny ordained for them. It is true these
people were intelligent, after a fashion, but there is little knowledge
to be had on this rock-world and when the limit is reached, the mind
must retrogress.

"There will be mutations on our lost world, for our planet was
possessed of a much larger population than this of the transgressors.
Thus when the hellish ego-transposer effected the change, many on
our world were left mindless, with only the instincts of the beast
remaining. Inter-breeding will greatly reduce the intelligence of the
entire population for a time--though they will without doubt arise once
more to a new greatness, for the means are there for them.

"There can only be sorrow, despair, and untold misery for us. Before
the gods, there can be no greater trespass than this."

Kac's voice trailed away.

Sick dread was on Gene's face. "Kac," he whispered, "What was the name
of this world that was stolen from you?"

"Ours was the third world nearest the sun," the tall warrior answered
with true regret. "The planet you call Earth...."

Gene's torment of mind knew no bounds in the following hours. Kac had
left him in the cavern, warning him not to destroy the Talkers or the
tribe would surely slay him. The biologist had given his word and even
if he had wished, he could not have violated it; for nothing short of
an atomic-cannon could rend the metal of which the titanic machines
were built.

He had an atomic-cannon mounted on his ship, _New Frontiers_, but what
good was it? He could not get to it--the Beast People surrounded the
valley and would nail him the moment he appeared over the rim.

A small platform extended from the ego-transposer, midway up, and to
this he climbed via a ladder depending from it. A bucket seat was
anchored to the flooring. He dropped in it and began studying the
instruments before him.

Outside of two silver-beaded screens, the fixtures were simple ones and
quite easy to understand. Yet, his manipulations brought no results.

Long after night fell, he worked with the machine, and when done, he
left with the knowledge that he was its master. The troublemaker turned
out to be a broken wire; simple, yet it had stumped the Wronged Ones.
The plainest things are often the hardest to see.

The other machine defied solution. Kac had told him that it, too, had
been captured from the Beast People, who avowed that it generated rays
beneficial to vegetable and animal life.

Gene learned definitely, though, that it was the cause of Earth's
plight. The working of it was beyond him, but this much he knew. This,
then, was the traitorous Beast People's way of exacting vengeance--by
deliberately misinforming their captors as to the machine's purpose.
Too, they had tampered with some vital part, making it impossible to
shut off the power.

There was no guessing how long it had been sending that deadly ray
through space, slowly disintegrating all metallic matter in its path.
In a few years, maybe months, metal molecules would be drawn so far
apart that every structure on Earth would collapse under its own weight.

He thought his brain would burst, so many troubles did it hold. To
add to them, Kac brought word that the Beast People were massing for
another attack. This would be the final battle, with no surcease till
one or the other of the clashing forces fell in decisive defeat--and
Gene knew with dread that it could only be the Wrong Ones who would go
down.


                                   V

The onslaught came the next day. Hundreds of the Beast People poured
into the valley--screaming, gibbering, eager to taste blood. They moved
over the rocky surface like some evil blight cast up from the uttermost
depths of Hell.

Gene's oil trick would not work now, for there was no oil with which to
carry it through. The plants from which it was obtained grew outside
the valley, and no one had dared venture forth to pluck them. The tribe
would not be in misery much longer.

The warriors had thrown up a stone barricade in front of the caves, and
from behind this they looked out upon the fast-approaching horde. Not a
man among them looked with fear, but with contempt and detestation for
the vermin that came to crush them.

The invaders were within range now. Gene raised his energy-ray and
tightened his finger around the trigger. Nothing happened. Its power
was exhausted by the almost constant use to which he had put it since
arriving here. He flung it aside and snatched up a spear.

The first wave of half-men loosed a hail of crude shafts, hurling them
with all the venom that was in their black hearts. Some went to the
mark, piercing the breasts of those too slow in ducking. Their aim was
poor, but they had many spears and many men to throw them.

Gene tossed his own javelin and had the pleasure of seeing it bury
itself in the neck of a squat creature, severing the jugular. Then the
battle waxed furious.

The tribe fought desperately to stem the tide. Even Old One and the
venerable warriors whose day of battle should be past added their bit
to the cause. But nothing could turn those squealing, hate-maddened
beings that charged.

Of a sudden, a hairy, hideous face poked above the barrier. The thing
snarled and pulled itself over the rocks to land squarely on Gene.

Man and beast met in a fight for life. The slavering brute bore Gene
down with crushing strength, wrapping an arm about his waist and
pushing back on his chin, trying to snap his spine.

The agony was unbearable. Gene brought up a hand and clamped it on the
back of the half-man's head, digging his thumb in behind the ear.

An infinite moment passed, then his adversary straightened slowly,
swaying on his feet. The biologist quickly wound his arms around its
neck and went dragging it over the ground to a boulder. Once, twice, he
bashed the filthy head against the stone. The lifeless body dropped.

Hand to hand battles were raging all about Gene, and though the Wronged
Ones fought valiantly, the knowledge was in their eyes that they were
lost.

In horror, he saw Old One threshing about on the ground, the fangs
of a half-man fastened in his throat. Before Gene could move, an
avenging form hurtled through the air and lit on the hell-creature.
A stone dagger came down, slashing, tearing, wielded by the hand of a
grief-maddened Kac.

The explorer turned away, a choking lump rising in his throat. Then,
in his sorrow, a daring plan came to him. Heart thumping against its
prison of ribs, he raced away to the Cave of Talkers.

       *       *       *       *       *

No one was there. The women and children were all huddled in their
homes and, of course, every man was outside defending the city. He
clambered up to the platform and threw himself in the bucket seat,
hoping against hope that this experiment would work.

The ego-transposer hummed with unholy sentience as he threw in a
switch, and a soft glow appeared deep in the silver-beaded screens.

Slowly, the image of a tiny organism took form on one screen. Almost at
the same moment an identical likeness swam into view on the other. Then
began a parade of life-forms across the screens, each succeeding animal
a bit higher on the evolutionary scale than its predecessor.

The sounds of battle grew nearer. He had to hurry now.... Ah! There!
The flat, repulsive face of a half-man loomed before him. His finger
stabbed at a stud, and the likeness was transfixed on the screen.

The procession continued on the other glowing surface until the
physique of a Wronged One took shape in the depths and came to focus.

The two reproductions stared out at him with unwinking eyes. Deep in
the bowels of the machine the basic mind make-up of the beings was
being analyzed. An instant later the throbbing transposer would set up
an en masse connection with the race egos, then....

A green light flashed on the panel and Gene brought his hand forward on
the master switch. It was done!

Elated, he scrambled down from his perch and hurried outside. As he
passed between the strangely inactive creatures at the entrance, a
horrified voice croaked: "What terrible deed has been done?"

Gene grabbed the foul thing by the shoulders. "Kac! Is it you?"

"No," it whispered. "It is my mind, yes, but it is not my body." His
hands went to his face. "Gene! I cannot see!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Easy!" Gene hissed. "You'll cause a panic." He realized that although
the Wronged Ones could, with effort, talk with the strange vocal cords,
it would take them some time to master the high-pitched shrill.

"Listen, Kac," he said. "Call out and tell your people to banish fear
from their minds, or many will die by the spears of the crazed Beast
People. Tell them to fall on the ground and not to rise until you so
instruct them. Hurry now, there is no time to lose!"

Dazedly, Kac obeyed. Though his voice was cracked and unrecognizable,
it boomed with authority. Suppressing their fright, the transposed
Wronged Ones dropped to the ground and lay unmoving.

Then Gene crouched beside his fearful companion and looked upon the
debacle. The transported Beast People were groping about uncertainly.

They were in the same boat as their hated enemies. Sight was a thing
unknown to their brutish minds, thus the eyes they now possessed were
utterly useless; and try as they would, they could not produce the
inaudible squeal which gave them knowledge of their surroundings with
the vocal cords of their new bodies.

Two of them collided, and immediately struck out with their stone
knives. To each, the flesh they felt was the flesh of a Wronged One--a
feared foe who must be destroyed. Both toppled, screaming defiance even
in their final death throes.

The scene was repeated time and again, till the valley floor was but a
mass of shrieking, struggling, mangled bodies.

The carnage all but over, Gene grabbed up a spear and went forth to mop
up. Some of the transposed Wronged Ones had not dropped as Kac, now
their chief, had commanded, but stood about with vacuous expressions on
their faces. He suddenly realized that there were no guiding minds in
these husks. The Beast People had outnumbered the tribe; consequently
many of the monstrosities had been left mindless when the change took
place.

Finishing his grisly task, he flung the spear from him in disgust and
hurried back to the cave, shouting as he went: "Victory is ours, Kac!
The Beast People are defeated! Now your tribe can rejoice!"

But there was no joy in Kac, he found. Now, there was a greater sadness
on the new chief's face than was there at any time previous. Strange
people! What could be the grievance now?

Kac must have sensed the question in his mind. He gestured disdainfully
at his squat, hairy body. "Look you, Gene. You have made our plight
far worse. Now we cannot see to hunt or to harvest the puny crops that
we wrest from this woe-begone world. This had to be, that is to my
knowing. But I fear the tribe will not understand. I can sense their
rage even now, my brother."

Gene whirled and stared sickly at the warriors rising from the ground.
It was true. Wrath was on their features as they fumbled toward the
cave, guided by the very sound of his breathing impinging against their
sensitive ears.

The blood-spattered biologist was stunned. "Wait, my brothers!" he
cried, throwing up his arms. "You have not been betrayed! Today, you
have won a great victory over your enemies; on this same day you shall
begin a new life--a life of plenty, of happiness."

But his words were lost in the roar of a people aroused. Nearer they
groped. Kac added his appeal, to no avail. They would have the blood of
this false-tongued specimen of a race that revelled on a world that was
not his own.

If only they would listen to his plan! But argument would only bring
about his death--and the end of all hope for a once-mighty people. He
turned despairingly to his one remaining friend.

"Hear this now, Kac," he said urgently. "I am going into the cave
to--to appeal to the all-powerful Talkers. It is your task to remain
here and hold off your warriors as long as possible. In a few moments
wondrous magic will be worked on you and all your people, but fear not.
Know I am your friend, no matter what strange, new vista your eyes next
look upon, and never would I do you harm. When next we meet, it will be
in a paradise far more glorious than that for which you mourn. Will you
do this your brother asks?"

The great jaws parted and one resolute word came from them: "Yes!"

Gene took the gnarled, furry hand in a warm grip, then turned and
bounded down the steps. His hands seemed to be all thumbs as he climbed
the ladder.

At least, he thought as he spun the dials to long range, the
ego-transposer would undo some of its horrors before its evil existence
came to an end.

The splendid, sun-tanned form of a tall youth coalesced on one screen
and Gene froze it there with a flick of his finger.

A panorama of life hastened across the other screen, and he recoiled
impulsively as the flat, stupid face of a half-man leaped at him from
its depth. But he knew that intelligence reposed behind those fearsome
features--intelligence that would build a world.

Now the transposer was analyzing the race-egos--and the Wronged Ones
were swarming into the cave!

       *       *       *       *       *

Kac had been unable to hold them. They had merely side-stepped him and
come on, silent now and grim. They would not harm their chief, but they
would let nothing stand in the way of their vengeance.

Gene rushed to the platform's edge and brought his foot down on a
shaggy hand. A stone dagger swished past his ear and shattered against
the machine. Heart racing, he flung himself against the master switch
and slammed it shut.

Silence, then a chorus of meaningless grunts drifted up to his ears.
Below, the half-men milled about like cattle, feeling stupidly of their
bodies. They could not understand; they felt wonderingly of their heads
where eyes should be, trying to lift the darkness.

The _New Frontiers_ still rested where it had crashed--how long ago?
Gene replaced the smashed tube and jockeyed the ship clear of the
debris. The tubes roared with power and the landscape fell away.

As he sped toward the cave city, his thoughts went back to the events
of a few short hours ago.

In his feeling for the Wronged Ones, he had followed the only course
that offered itself. That was the transference of their egos to Venus,
to the bodies of the human-like inhabitants of that planet. To those
whom Man had wronged long in the dim past. Gene had given a new life,
atoned for Man's darkest deed.

At the same time, he had given new hope to Man himself; for now, trade
between Earth and Venus would become a reality as soon as the Wronged
Ones could orient themselves to the new surroundings--a year at the
most. The clouds of Venus had long since lifted, and the tribe would
thrive in the warm sunshine that now bathed the planet. Under Kac's
able leadership they would aid in restoring Earth's depleted mineral
wealth, and in turn Earth would help them in building a lasting
civilization.

Now he was over the cave city, and he knew what he must do. On the
Vizio-screen he could see tiny specks moving about in the valley. They
were stumbling away from the caves, away from what they could not
understand.

He dived on the city and depressed the firing stud of the
atomic-cannon. A gigantic concussion rocked his ship as the valley wall
exploded upward.

On the screen he could see the remains of the machines in the rubble
below. So ended the ego-transposer, a devil machine that could lift the
spider-web of self from the very brain on which it was spun.

So, too, ended the destructive ray that a desperate people, ever greedy
for new wealth, had unwittingly turned upon themselves on that day of
infancy in the now-forgotten past.

Now to Venus, where the end of his strange adventure awaited. There
had been many more Venusians than Wronged Ones. This surplus now
belonged to the beasts--mindless, with only the instincts of the
beast remaining. These mindless ones must be segregated to prevent
inter-breeding with the others.

As the _New Frontiers_ flashed sunward, Gene caught one final glimpse
of the transposed Venusians on his Vizio. Now a race without hope, were
they. In undoing one great wrong, he had committed another. But this
was a primitive, ignorant people to whom intelligence would never have
come in time to aid Earth in the crisis that threatened.

He had played God to them, but they would never know, never realize ...
or would they?





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Steel Giants of Chaos, by James R. Adams

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STEEL GIANTS OF CHAOS ***

***** This file should be named 63668-8.txt or 63668-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/6/6/63668/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
