The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Primus Curse, by Bill Wesley

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Primus Curse

Author: Bill Wesley

Release Date: November 10, 2020 [EBook #63707]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PRIMUS CURSE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           THE PRIMUS CURSE

                            By BILL WESLEY

            _That the psychology boys had been right again,
             annoyed the veteran captain. He'd felt like a
             mechanical man all the time. Never would have
            believed he could send men to their death like
          that. And the ship! He might have lost everything!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1954.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Well, Skipper, we'll be in Mercury's com zone in ten hours, plus or
minus a half."

Captain Evan Grimes eyed his chief engineer sternly. "How'd you know I
wouldn't have the recorder turned on, Manson? That could have cost you
a week's pay."

"Sorry, sir," Bill Manson saluted, still smiling.

"I don't mean the salutation, you bonehead. It's been five years since
the Service banned the name Mercury for Primus, and I've heard it used
at least three times on this trip."

"I'll make out a voluntary on it."

"Forget it. I don't like those spying recorders any more than you
do, but I don't like to see a man throwing his money away either.
Especially when he's on a job where he'll probably earn every dollar of
it."

Manson pulled a fade-away chair from its wall socket and pressed the
green button.

He waited two seconds for the cushion to inflate, then relaxed in it.
"So you really think it's going to be rough," he said casually.

Grimes swung his chair ninety degrees and studied the planet, Primus,
looming ever larger on the television screen. There were small breaks
in the cloud formations, but it was still too early to glimpse any of
the compact little cities.

"We aren't the first group to tackle this mystery, you know, and we'd
be hard put to prove we were the best, from what I've read of the
reports."

The engineer scratched his carefully trimmed beard and didn't appear at
all worried. "If you'd like to know how I feel about it," he grinned,
"my wedding date's already set for next June."

The captain had to smile. "I attribute your optimism to your
inexperience," he said. "Even assuming that we escape with our necks,
what makes you think we'll have it cleared up before June? I've got a
reputation for doing things the cautious way, you know."

Manson shrugged. "I've heard of that code they drum into you at Space
Academy. Your ship is your life. Every speck of meteoric dust that
sticks to its hide is your responsibility. And right along with the
ship comes the crew. Each member a ten million dollar investment--not
one hair of his head to be risked unnecessarily."

"You're a little inaccurate in the phraseology, but go on. What are you
driving at?"

"Nothing special. That's all fine and dandy for escorting bug-hunters
around Mars, but this is a combat mission. First one in a hundred
years. Not a man in the Service has ever been on a combat mission. I'd
give plenty to hear what's on the tape this time."

"What makes you think there is a tape?"

Manson pushed the red button on the chair and let it slide out from
under him, deflating itself with a swoosh. "There's always a tape. This
one should be a lulu. I won't be surprised to see you storm out of here
in about nine hours with blood in your eye and X pistols hanging on
both hips."

"And I won't be surprised to see you flying out of here head first in
about two seconds," Grimes shouted. "I'll accept your maximum estimate
of ten and a half hours. That'll be soon enough to establish contact.
Now get out."

Manson paused in the doorway. "It's just one forty and three," he said.
"Shall I write in the journal that the engineer was commended for the
fast trip?"

"We aren't in yet. All I said was get out."

The engineer scurried through the door, leaving behind a more pleased
commander than he had been given reason to suspect.

One hundred and forty days to Primus! The boy had a right to gloat,
Grimes thought. If it wasn't a top secret mission the trip would go
into the record book.

He slid his desk into its wall socket and opened a camouflaged
compartment alongside it by playing a complex tattoo with his fingers
on the unmarked surface. He drew out a reel of plastic tape and a
sealed envelope, then pushed the door gently, listening for the faint
sound of the tumblers falling into place, locking it. He switched off
the main light, leaving only a pale blue ceiling glow, and retired to
his sleeping quarters.

No hurry on the tape--he was glad of that. Shouldn't take more than
ten minutes. Plenty of time for a shower and a movie. Then the service
could have his subconscious. At least they spared him those long-winded
tapes he had heard about. A restless man sometimes had to take a
sleeping pill to give the tape time to play itself out. Grimes had been
around too long to let it bother him that much, but he always felt a
certain resentment when they handed him one of their psychological
gimmicks.

What the devil could be on this one? The orders were the clearest
he had ever received. Drastic, all right, but no room for
misinterpretation. Here he was Number Three Commander in the service,
and they didn't trust him to come in out of the rain. Maybe Manson was
trying to drop a hint. Didn't think he was capable of leading a combat
mission. Maybe the whole crew was uneasy.

A hard smile forced itself across his face. They'd know in the next
fifteen or twenty hours who their leader was.

It was just one-forty and six when Grimes switched off his microfilm
projector and returned the movie canister to his library.

Okay, big shots, one of your little toy soldiers is ready for the psych
treatment, he thought sourly as he dropped the plastic tape onto the
player and positioned the governor electrodes over his bed. I'd like to
have the guy by the throat who invented this gadget, he muttered.

The tape only played when the electrodes picked up radiation from
the brain telling that the subject was asleep; then the information
became a part of his subconscious only. If he awoke, the player simply
stopped until he went back to sleep. The results were frequently
amazing. Blundering old space veterans had been converted overnight
into smooth diplomats for negotiating with the sensitive Venusians.
Timid souls had been fired up to brave the risks of delicate landings
on tiny asteroids. And now it was his turn. What kind of pep talk did
the psychology brain trust think he needed? Afraid he'd make a fool of
himself in front of his crew?

He switched on the player savagely and set the volume level to suit
a light sleeper; then he slit open the envelope and read the few
imprinted lines.

    "CAPTAIN GRIMES, SPACESHIP VULCAN, EN ROUTE PRIMUS. REVIEW OF
    ORDERS. ESTABLISH COMMUNICATIONS WITH PRIMUS CITIES NEPHELE,
    ESTIVAL. DETERMINE CAUSE OF DEATHS OF PREVIOUS EXPLORERS.
    INVESTIGATE EXHAUSTIVELY, RUTHLESSLY. COMPLETE EXPLANATION
    ABSOLUTELY IMPERATIVE. YOUR SUCCESS MAY FORESTALL EXPEDITIONARY
    FORCE. UNITED NATIONS SERVICE  HEADQUARTERS, PARIS."

He pushed the cold-blooded message through a discard slot and turned
down the bed clothes. He hopped between the sheets and took a deep
breath. Modern science was wonderful, he mused, but it hadn't yet found
a substitute for a pair of clean sheets.

       *       *       *       *       *

Exactly seven hours later Captain Grimes stepped into the pilot's room
and nodded seriously at the men gathered about the radio receiver.
Aside from the operator there was Dr. Keith Johnson, the chief medical
officer; Kai-Ling, the soft spoken pilot; and Engineer Bill Manson.

"We're still dark, sir," the radio operator explained. "Just listening
to land transmissions."

Grimes noted the red light in the center of the ceiling, indicating
that the service recorder was operating.

"What's the time to go?" he asked Manson.

"Half hour, sir," the engineer said, glancing at the radar scope for
verification.

"Cruise between Nephele and Estival at a hundred thousand," Grimes told
the pilot.

The man was still wearing part of his traditional garments and part
of his service uniform. Grimes made signs at him, at the same time
pointing to the red light. The pilot grinned broadly and began to shed
the Oriental half of his garb on the spot.

"All right, Johnny," Grimes addressed the radio operator. "I want to
talk with the Mayor of Estival and I don't want to be by-passed by any
army or air force official or anybody else."

The boy's fingers flew over his controls and in a matter of seconds
he had the Estival Telephone Exchange. The first operator spoke no
Terranian languages at all. The second one could only speak French and
German. Then the chief operator took over and filled the room with the
peculiar sing song quality of a Priman speaking English.

Grimes reminded himself that the Primans had done a miraculous job in
learning any Terranian tongues at all, considering the terrific strain
under which the teaching had taken place. They had been taught from the
air by Dr. Allen Russell, after the first Terranian exploration had
ended in a hundred per cent fatalities. Then the famous doctor himself
had landed and had never made it back to his ship. That had set off the
clamor at home for direct action against the dark skinned people of
Primus. Mobs had actually stormed the UN building in Paris demanding
blood.

Grimes aroused himself with a contemptuous shrug. Blood! The imbeciles!
Most of them didn't know enough about Primans to know if they even had
any blood; yet they were sure it was a case of wholesale murder. The
Primans didn't want anybody to get their precious uranium ore--that was
the popular belief. And he had to risk the lives of the best space crew
ever assembled to satisfy their impatience or the UN would be forced
into a full scale attack.

"Here's the Mayor of Estival, sir," the radio operator said.

Grimes took a handset. "Captain Grimes ... Spaceship Vulcan ... Mister."

He waited for the acknowledgement. The mayor's voice was high pitched
and unsteady, but his command of English was more than satisfactory.

"Mister of Estival," he said. "Greetings, Captain Grimes. Will you
land?"

"We ... will ... not ... land ... at ... once. Our ... mission ...
may ... be ... the ... last ... peaceful ... one ... to ... visit ...
Primus ... if ... the ... mystery ... of ... the ... Terranians' ...
deaths ... is ... not ... solved."

"I understand you very well, Captain. You may speak more readily with
me. What can I do to help you?"

Grimes relaxed and winked encouragingly at the doctor and Manson, then
turned his attention back to the radio.

"We want a complete explanation of the cause of death of all Terranians
who have landed on Primus. Have you performed autopsies on any of the
bodies?"

"We are not equipped to operate as you are, Captain. We have almost no
medical science on Primus. We are doing what we can but so far we have
discovered nothing."

"My orders are to exploit every possibility. After us will come only a
task force, Mayor of Estival."

       *       *       *       *       *

The mayor's voice carried a certain anxiety in spite of its sing-song
quality. "Of course we will try to defend ourselves, but it would be
hopeless. Our civilization is much further advanced than yours in many
ways, but we have none of your weapons of war. We wouldn't even know
how to take care of our wounded."

"My service knows that, Mister. But we can't reason with a mob, and
that's what we have against us at home. I have expert medical personnel
with me and a completely equipped laboratory. We intend to experiment
extensively, both on your people and on our own. I am authorized to
demand your full cooperation."

"Cooperation is freely offered, Captain, but coercion is unknown on
Primus. I cannot make personal bargains for the citizens of Estival."

"You won't need to. We'll make our own bargains, and at the end of an
X gun if necessary. What have you done since the last expedition was
here?"

"We have given the lie detector test to every Priman over the age of
twenty--that is approximately five of your years--and no one has any
knowledge of the Terranians' deaths. There is nothing toxic on Primus.
We have not had a disease or an infection within the memory of any of
our people. We don't know what else to do."

"All right, I believe you, but that won't slow us down a bit. Now
listen to our plan. We are going to land one man at a time and have
him report back to the ship at short intervals. Under no circumstances
must any Priman come near this man or pay any attention to him. Is that
clear?"

"That is clear, Captain; but I cannot accept your proposals in the form
of ultimata. The people of Primus...."

Captain Grimes' voice hardened. "You'll do exactly as I tell you or
there won't be an Estival much longer. Is that understood?"

The reply was slow in coming. "I understand, Captain. I will have the
information broadcast immediately. I suggest you give me at least one
of your hours."

"Make it two. Thanks for your cooperation, Mister. Good-bye."

Grimes tossed the handset to the radio operator. "Send a recording of
that conversation to the Mayor of Nephele," he said.

The boy nodded and began calling the Nephele exchange. Grimes turned to
Dr. Johnson.

"I want a man for a dangerous job that will require mental alertness at
all times. Who would you recommend?"

Manson spoke up before the doctor could make up his mind. "Myself,
sir," he said.

Grimes dismissed the engineer without even looking at him. "Need you
here, Manson. How about Fuqua?" he asked the doctor.

"I would suggest Lerner, your assistant astro-navigator. He's the
healthiest specimen aboard and genuinely courageous, I'm quite
certain."

"Call Lerner on the inter-com, Johnny," Grimes told the radio operator.
Then to Bill Manson he said, "Get a Mars kit ready for him, and then
have one TV camera equipped with a long boy. I want to be able to watch
every step Lerner takes, just as if I were alongside him."

He then strode rapidly to the pilot's desk and called Kai-Ling to a
window.

Somewhere in the back of his brain something was worrying him. All
along he had pictured himself leading a half dozen of his crew in a
sort of battle formation from one sector of the city to the next, alert
to catch a Priman sniper or uncover a booby-trap. Now here he was
making plans to send one man out alone--probably to certain death. What
did he expect to gain from that? Was he softening under pressure? Or
was he really applying reason, as he tried to convince himself?

"I want you to hover ten feet above that end of the airstrip," he told
the pilot, pointing. "We'll drop Lerner from that height. But don't go
down until I tell you."

When he returned to the doctor's side, the two of them were temporarily
alone. Grimes sat down heavily and leaned toward the doctor.

"This is a ticklish situation, Doc. I've got a wonderful bunch of kids
on this ship, but not many mature, level heads. I'm not sure they'll
see eye to eye with my tactics."

Dr. Johnson studied him for a moment. "That's always important with
you, isn't it?"

Grimes half evaded the older man's eyes. "It always has been in the
past, but something's different this time. I think that damn tape must
have done something to me. The only thing I seem to think about now
is results. To be frank, Doc, I'm a lot more worried about how we're
going to get to the bottom of this business than I am about how many
men we'll lose in the process. And that doesn't sound like the Grimes I
used to be at all."

"You've never had a job like this one. You don't know yet how you'll
react to the developments."

Grimes snorted. "Don't worry, I'll react effectively all right. The
psychology boys took care of that."

"Navigator Lerner, sir."

Grimes returned the salute and looked the boy over quickly. Not more
than twenty-three, tall, not the least muscular; and not the least
worried, if the eyes told anything.

"This is big stuff, Lerner," Grimes said seriously. "That's why I
didn't ask for a volunteer. I have to have the best man, whether he's
eager or not. You'll take a radio and a direct-view explosive pistol.
You'll start toward the city from where we drop you and do nothing but
observe until you receive an order from me. If anything happens to your
radio reception you'll return to the ship immediately. Any questions so
far?"

"No, sir."

Grimes studied the confident features almost enviously. "Keep your eyes
and ears open and report anything that interests you immediately. We'll
follow you on TV and try to anticipate your needs." He had to bite his
lip to continue the instructions. "Be sure to let us know instantly if
you feel any of the usual symptoms."

Lerner's eyes remained steady as he nodded.

A few minutes later he dropped lightly to the surface of the planet and
waited for his first instructions.

"Stay on the hard surface of the airstrip," Grimes ordered. "Don't kick
up any dust as you walk. Don't touch anything with your exposed skin."

       *       *       *       *       *

The navigator started toward the buildings at the far end of the
airstrip. He wore a light linen suit that looked more like an
eighteenth century houri's costume than anything an inter-planetary
explorer might wear. It was belted around the waist and again at the
ankles, and thin enough to reveal the athletic supporter which was
his only undergarment. He carried the receiver-transmitter over one
shoulder and held the X pistol, with its brightly focussed target
scope, ready in his hand. He had slid some "Uneasy" pills from a Mars
kit under the strap of his wristwatch. They were a great help in
combating nausea during the first few hours on the light planet. The
UN labs were working on a special kit for use on Primus, but in the
meantime the Mars kit seemed to be a satisfactory substitute. The
reduced gravitational pull of the smaller planets worked strange tricks
on a man's insides and most explorers resorted freely to the pills,
which they had nicknamed "Uneasy."

"There's a vegetable growth of some kind in the cracks along the
airstrip here," Lerner's voice came steadily over the loud speaker.

"Don't touch it with your bare skin," Grimes said quickly. "They
probably haven't used the airstrip since the last expedition from
Terra. Is there any odor rising from it?"

He watched the young navigator dip into a semi-crouch. "Nothing that I
can detect, sir."

"All right, go on. Go inside the UN building and see if it's empty. If
there's anybody there, come out immediately. Keep talking all the time
you're inside. I want a word picture of everything you see."

As Lerner approached the buildings about a half mile away, Grimes
switched from a direct view to the television screen that maintained a
life-size close-up. He felt a momentary urge to organize a small force
and lead it up to the navigator's position. What kept him back? That
was the way he had planned it before the tape had gone to work on him.
What were Manson and the others thinking now?

"The photo-electric cell is still operating the door," Lerner said. "I
don't see anybody around."

The television camera still showed the front of the building. There was
no window through which it could scan the inside.

"Look around carefully and don't move until you're sure of yourself,"
Grimes ordered. "According to the reports, you should be in a lobby
surrounded by glass-walled offices. Is that the picture?"

"That is correct, sir. I don't see any signs of anybody. Wait...." The
voice stopped for a minute. Captain Grimes leaned forward tensely. Then
Lerner began to speak again, hesitantly.

"I see ... I see a costume hanging ... hanging in one of the offices.
There might be somebody there ... probably just wearing shorts or
something. I don't feel so good...."

"Get out of there quick," Grimes shouted.

"Yes, sir," came the reply, weakly. "There is someone here. He sees me
but I don't think he ... I don't know if he's coming down. Yes, I guess
he is. He's only wearing shorts. He's ... what did you say, Captain?"

"I said get out of there. Get out of there at once, Lerner."

"I can't make you out, sir. My head hurts. I'm coming out. I feel sick
at my stomach. I...."

The voice trailed off and after a moment Lerner stumbled into the field
of the TV camera and stood unsteadily before the big UN building. Then
his scream of pain came vibrating from the speaker.

"Captain Grimes! Larsen! Somebody, stop it. For God's sake, shoot!"

He pointed his pistol excitedly in all directions, firing wildly
with the high-explosive bullets. Grimes turned from the TV screen to
the window, grabbing a pair of binoculars. All he could see was the
staggering figure of the navigator, stabbing the space around him with
his pistol and screaming over the radio.

"Stop it, Lerner. Stop that firing and screaming. There's nothing
bothering you. Get back here immediately. On the double."

Even as he shouted the futile orders, Grimes saw the boy slump to the
ground writhing and clutching at his insides. In five seconds it was
all over. The brutal telescopic lens of the TV camera showed the blood
spilling from his open mouth--there was no other motion.

Then the camera picked up the figure of the Priman as he popped into
view from inside the building. There was a moment of shocked silence
inside the spaceship.

Then three things happened at once.

Somebody snarled, "Get that rat!" There was a flash from a high-powered
rifle and the resultant explosion of the bullet against the front of
the UN building, too high to do any damage. There was the leap of the
startled Priman backward through the door.

Grimes jumped to the communication panel and grabbed a handset. "Stop
that firing. Fall in for inspection of firearms immediately. Lieutenant
Ramsey, conduct the inspection. Place the man who fired that round in
confinement. Lieutenant Fuqua, position your gunners and give orders
to fire only at my command."

He threw the handset back in its place and then grabbed it again
immediately. "Start scanning the area with the TV camera. Get off that
body. There's nothing new there."

"The mayor's on again," the radio operator broke in.

Grimes switched handsets and growled his greeting.

"Captain Grimes," the undulating voice said excitedly. "I have just
received a call from the airfield. It seems that one of our citizens
was fired upon. We cannot allow that kind of...."

"You'll allow anything that you can't help. One of my men is dead. I
can't allow that either, but what can I do about it?" He caught the
anxious expression on Dr. Johnson's face and calmed down somewhat. "I'm
sorry, Mister, about the firing. The man is being punished. What did
your citizen report? Did he do anything?"

"He did nothing. The Terranian entered the building without first
reporting to the sanitation chambers. We will resist this sort of thing
to our utmost, Captain."

"All right, you've said that before. I've got nothing against you,
Mister--at least, nothing that I can prove, but if I don't get to the
bottom of this trouble you'll soon find yourself putting up the most
futile resistance in solar history. Now listen to me. Get everybody out
of the UN building. What we're looking for must be right there. That
may not be the only place, but it'll do for a starter."

"I will have the building vacated, Captain. Will you please observe the
sanitation procedure? We must not have any germ diseases transmitted on
Primus."

"If we pollute you we'll cure you. Quit worrying about it. Do as I tell
you."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no reply. The transmission went dead. Grimes watched the TV
screen which again showed the UN building. After a while three Primans
scurried through the door and ran toward the city, not even glancing at
the crumpled figure of the navigator.

Grimes turned to Dr. Johnson, about to suggest that he name another man
for the outside job when he noticed Bill Manson calmly adjusting the
receiver-transmitter over his shoulder. He had already selected several
items from the Mars kit spread out on the floor, and had slipped them
into a plastic case strapped above one knee.

"All right, Manson; you win," Grimes said gratefully. "But take it
easy. There's no hurry. Examine everything inside that lobby before
you take two steps away from the door. Better yet, stay outside for a
while. He might have picked up some poison before he went in."

"I'll do my best, Captain. Don't worry, I'll be back. Remember, I'm the
boy who's getting married next June."

The captain said nothing. He felt he was hitting a new low now--sending
Manson out. Still it was the only sensible thing to do.

What good would it do for him to be out there convulsing on the ground?
Who could take over and run the ship any better if he did sacrifice
himself?

He snapped out of it and concentrated on watching the engineer's figure
retreating down the long Priman airstrip.

Except for the insignificant fungus growing out of the cracks, there
was nothing of interest between the spaceship and the buildings and
Manson hardly paused until he was opposite Lerner's body.

"Don't touch him," Grimes ordered. "We'll look at him later if
possible. And stand around for a while before you go any further. Is
there anything peculiar at all? Any small animal life? Any strange
smells?"

"Just this stinking atmosphere. I don't see a thing, sir. There's no
doubt that Lerner's dead."

Grimes watched the engineer stroll around aimlessly in front of the UN
building for a full twenty minutes and then finally gave him permission
to enter.

"I'm propping the door open," Manson said. "There's nothing in the
lobby. Looks like there were tables and chairs here at one time, but
they've been taken out."

The voice prattled on and Grimes tried to relax while listening, but he
found himself tensing with the beginning of each sentence.

"I feel a little woozy," Manson said all of a sudden. "It's just the
light gravity, I know. I've been on Mars--it's the same sensation."

"Nevertheless, get out of that building immediately," Grimes shouted.

The engineer's figure appeared at once on the TV screen and Grimes
breathed a sigh of relief. Just the same he reassured himself with a
pair of binoculars that Manson was all right, as though he didn't trust
the electronic image.

"How do you feel?" he asked anxiously.

"Not so good. I never really got used to walking on Mars, and I was
there a dozen times or more. I never stopped taking the Uneasy pills,
though I got so I used to bite 'em in half and take ... just ... a ...
part...."

"What's the matter with you?" Grimes yelled, though he could see
readily enough what was the matter. The boy was doubled over in pain.
His lips moved frantically in an effort to talk, but no sound came out.
He tried to straighten once but a new attack seized him and he half
fell to the ground. His screams of pain filled the spaceship until
Grimes could stand it no longer.

"Get down there quick," he commanded the pilot. "And shut off that
speaker," he hollered at the radio operator.

Now what was he doing? Risking the entire ship and crew. And for what?
To try to save one man? He knew better. That would have been his reason
in the old days--now he wasn't thinking of the man. He was thinking of
results. He had to know what was happening. One thing kept hammering
in his brain. His mission. He had a mission, and it was more important
than one man or a whole crew of men.

The big ship moved silently and rapidly to the other end of the runway.
Grimes had the exit port open by the time they stopped beside the
twisting body of the engineer.

He grabbed the medium sized figure under the armpits and pulled his
head and shoulders up inside the ship. Dr. Johnson gave a hand and they
soon had Manson laid out on the floor of the pilot's room. A hypodermic
appeared almost magically in the doctor's hand.

"There's nothing left to do," he said to the excited captain.

"Get away from him," Grimes shouted fiendishly, jumping forward and
pushing the doctor back. "He's got to talk. He's got to."

"My God, Captain, he's dying with pain," a third voice broke in.

Grimes looked up to see the angry face of Lieutenant Ramsey glaring at
him. Behind Ramsey, several other crew members stared unbelievingly
from their commander's face to the tortured body on the floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Grimes didn't know exactly what he was doing, but he did it effectively
just the same. He shot a right cross that caught Ramsey on the jaw and
knocked him senseless. Then he knelt beside his chief engineer.

"Who did it, boy? What did it? You've got to tell me. Do you
understand--you've got to talk."

Manson tried. When he opened his mouth Grimes could see the blood
gathering and it nearly made him sick. He thought his own insides would
burst with each convulsion of the younger man's body.

"It was ... I think it was...."

The voice trailed off in a new spasm that ended in a violent kicking of
his arms and legs as if he were fighting off an attacking animal. Then
he vomited hideously and slowly relaxed.

Grimes looked at the doctor and beyond him could see the men still
glowering at him accusingly.

"It's too late now," Dr. Johnson shook his head.

"I guess we don't know any more than we did," Grimes said weakly. "Make
it easy for him if you can."

He spun around and concentrated on the radar map with no real interest.
A crash of something fragile caused him to turn again toward the figure
on the floor. Bill Manson had knocked the needle from the doctor's hand
and was struggling to speak.

Grimes leaped to his side instantly and cradled the boy's head in his
hands. "Speak up, Bill."

"It was ... the pill. I'm sure it was the pill," Manson said. He shook
his head and the glaze partly left his eyes. "I only took half a pill,
like I used to on Mars; I couldn't help it.... I was getting sick. I
felt it almost at once, then it really hit me after about two minutes."

"What pill? The Uneasy pill?" Grimes couldn't believe in so simple an
explanation. "They've been checked at home for years."

"Must be a slip somewhere. They weren't designed for Primus. I'll bet
my life it was the pill."

"Never mind betting your life any more now. You get some rest."

He snapped to his feet. "Give him something," he told the doctor. "And
take care of him. We'll analyze those pills ourselves. There's going to
be hell to pay if he's right, and just this minute I'm betting that he
is."

"Betting your life, Captain?"

Grimes spun to find Lieutenant Ramsey rubbing his jaw and eyeing him
bitterly.

"Yes, Lieutenant, betting my life." He ran to a wall cabinet and jerked
out a Mars kit and suit. He tore open the kit and threw out the Uneasy
pills, then he hurriedly donned the suit. Maybe that was the answer
after all, he mused grimly. Something in the atmosphere reacted with
the pill. They had never been declared official for Primus. No time to
worry about that now however.

He dropped to the surface of the planet and ran to the UN building. He
flung himself inside and ran wildly up and down the stair, shouting
like a vacation-crazed schoolboy. From the first building he went on to
the others, and then into the city, stopping to be sick when he felt
the urge and actually enjoying the pain.

Hours later an exhausted Captain Grimes returned to his spaceship to be
greeted by an apologetic and happier crew.

"The boy's going to be all right," Dr. Johnson told him. "He thinks he
owes his life to the fact that he only took half a pill, but I don't
know. I'd say it was just plain old guts."

"How about the pills?"

"No doubt about them, but I haven't pinned it down yet. We put a
pump on Manson and found some sodium chlorate in his stomach. That's
NaClO_{3}, you know, and you could get it from ordinary table salt,
NaCl, and ozone, O_{3}, if you could combine them. The Uneasy pill
has the NaCl all right, and there's plenty of ozone in the atmosphere
here--you've smelled it, of course. Smells like chlorine."

Grimes nodded impatiently. "But you couldn't get enough sodium
chlorate to kill a man from one medium size pill, could you?"

"No, you couldn't. It is poisonous, however. It's used as an
insecticide and as a weed-killer. But it's highly unstable and I don't
know how it could have been formed from such a stable substance as
sodium chloride. But we've never really had a chance to analyze this
atmosphere. I'll work on it on the way back. Whatever the catalyst
is, it must have allowed some other ozonides to form, and many of
them are highly explosive. A man could literally have been blown to
pieces from the inside. It must have been something that could produce
hallucinations too, judging from Lerner's actions."

Grimes laughed bitterly, but with relief. "Man, do we owe the Primans
an apology! I better draft something quick; then we'll shove off."

Lieutenant Ramsey was the only one who managed to speak.

"I insist on making out a voluntary on my actions, sir. I don't know
what came over me."

The captain pushed him aside. "There'll be no voluntarys passed across
my desk. I'm capable of reporting on conditions in my ship."

He went on to his private quarters.

Well, it was over, he thought wearily. The psychology boys had been
right again. He had felt like a mechanical man all the time. He never
would have believed he could send men out like that--and the ship! He
could have lost everything.

He glanced at the tape player still in position at his bedside.
Suddenly, on impulse, he dived at it and threw it open at the top.
He shorted out the governor circuits and then re-wound the tape to
the playing position. He had heard of commanders doing it before, and
vaguely he was aware that there was an order forbidding it, but he
replayed the tape anyway--this time to his conscious mind.

There was some soft, dreamy music for a couple of minutes, then a
feminine voice whispered, "Sleep well, Captain Grimes. Sleep well."
That was all, except for some more music.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Primus Curse, by Bill Wesley

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PRIMUS CURSE ***

***** This file should be named 63707.txt or 63707.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/7/0/63707/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
