Project Gutenberg's Through the Asteroids--To Hell!, by Leroy Yerxa

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Through the Asteroids--To Hell!

Author: Leroy Yerxa

Release Date: November 11, 2020 [EBook #63720]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THROUGH THE ASTEROIDS--TO HELL! ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                    Through The Asteroids--To Hell!

                            BY LEROY YERXA

              Blair Freedman had torn that tunnel through
              the grinding asteroid wall--with the mighty
               Cutter ... he'd die readily enough now to
             keep it open--but not with the girl he loved!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Blair Freedman pushed the jet control slightly, sending the X26 into a
wide slow arc toward the asteroid tunnel. He sighed and glanced at the
chart on the desk. Trip number seven thousand twenty-two. For the rest
of his life.

"Come over here, Jerry," he called.

Jerry Graham, short, slight of figure, smiled and left the navigation
desk. Graham's face was black where his razor had left heavy hair just
below the surface of the skin. His smile was mild and the brown eyes
behind heavy spectacles were gentle.

"What is it, Blair?"

He stood beside Freedman, watching the solid, moving wall of the
asteroid belt.

Blair Freedman sighed.

"Did you ever have the urge to deliberately miss the entrance of the
tunnel? To hit full on against the asteroids?"

Graham stiffened, feeling ice water sluice suddenly into his veins.

"Are you nuts?"

Freedman relaxed. His grip on the control lever became lighter, more
expert.

"No," he said slowly. "No, I'm okay. For a minute I was crazy, I guess.
That's why I called you."

Graham studied the face of the younger man. Freedman was tall,
rather slim. Graham could never decide just what made Blair Freedman
attractive to the opposite sex, unless the secret lay in his deep, gray
eyes and that shock of alarmingly red hair.

"I don't get it," he said. "Sure, the old routine gets tiresome. But
it's a job and someone has to do it. We can't _all_ be in the Warrior
Patrol."

Freedman had seemingly come to his senses now. He sent the ship
straight at the dark maw of the tunnel, flashed his colors to the guard
ship that hovered near the entrance with its big guns trained on him,
and then they were in the darkness.

The brilliant lamps of the X26 sent splashes of light along the walls.
Blair Freedman shuddered.

"Walls," he said idly. "Walls of twisting, gyrating death. I wonder
what really happens when a ship hits them?"

He was talking half to himself, but Graham shuddered. Blair Freedman
needed a rest, he decided. Needed to straighten himself out with the
world.

"You'd be torn to dust in ten seconds," he said. "That is, if you
weren't riding in the Cutter."

The Cutter was the huge ship designed by Planet Control, to keep the
asteroid tunnel open.

Freedman nodded.

"And that's _another_ thing I've got on my mind."

Graham wanted him to talk, until all the bitterness was out of him.

"What's another thing?"

They were deep in the tunnel now. Graham's eyes checked the mileage.
Fifteen miles in. Ten minutes before they would see light again.

Blair Freedman said, "I'm damned tired of running that ploughhorse.
Pete Folley's got to get another man for the job. I'm quitting."

Both men continued to look straight ahead. Freedman kept his eyes on
the controls. He had said it now. Said what he had wanted to say for
a month. A war was coming. He wanted "out" from the tunnel patrol. He
was good enough for the warrior ships. He wanted to fly them. Get out
into space where there was excitement, and a chance to show that he was
ready for something better.

"Look here, Blair," Graham said slowly. He had a helluva lump in his
throat. He felt lost. "Me, I'm not fit for the service. Too old. I
couldn't fly in here with anyone else. We been a team for years. You
can't...."

Freedman interrupted.

"I thought it all out, Jerry. You haven't got the confidence because
you've never had to do the work. You've leaned on me. You can handle
this ship _and_ the Cutter. Folley will never fire you."

A speedy luxury ship swished past them, coming from the opposite end of
the tunnel. There was light far ahead.

"I dunno," Graham said hesitantly. "You made up your mind? You're
leaving for sure?"

Freedman took a deep breath.

"I'm leaving," he said.

Graham turned and went back slowly to the navigation desk. He was
acting like a damned fool, he knew. Still, losing Blair was like losing
your arm, losing part of your brain and soul. He sat down and tried to
study the mapping sheets.

The figures and lines jumped up and blurred his eyes. Cautiously, so
Blair Freedman wouldn't see, he lifted his specs and rubbed a hand
across his eyes.

"Dammit," he said suddenly in a furious voice. "Go on then, and be
cussed. Sure I can fly alone. You can go to hell and see if I care."

Freedman swung around, startled. Graham's back was to him, his head
bent over the desk. "You don't have to get tough," he said mildly.

"You heard me," Graham said. "Go to hell."

They flashed out into the bright, clear void above the satellite Parma,
and Freedman changed his course for the home port. Behind them, the
solid, bulking group of asteroids barred them once more from the main
satellite group. There was only that single, carefully cut tunnel
through the wall. Freedman remained by the controls, a frown on his
thin pleasant face.

What was wrong with Jerry, acting like that? Sometimes he thought Jerry
was a little nuts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Man Folley leaned back in his chair behind the desk in the
Operations Office. Peter Folley was his full name and he had mild,
washed out blue eyes that regarded Freedman in a puzzled manner.

"But Blair--" he protested quietly, in answer to Freedman's outburst.

"I've made up my mind," Freedman said. "I've threatened to leave a
dozen times. It isn't you. It isn't anyone. Or, for that matter,
anything special. I'm fed up on the job and I want something exciting.
The Warrior Patrol is my meat."

Folley found a cigar and lighted it. He seemed to relax a little. He
was getting ready to argue the case.

Freedman knew he couldn't escape the argument. He had too much respect
for Pete Folley to walk out on him.

"Remember, Pete," he said, "I've made up my mind this time. The old pep
talk won't do any good. I'm fed up."

Folley was stubborn. He found a piece of paper and a pen-stick.

"Watch this, Blair," he said, and made a little _x_ in the right side
of the paper.

"Vestena," he said, pointing to the _x_. "The strongest satellite in
the outer area." On the left side of the sheet he put another _x_.
"Parma," he said. "The gold satellite--power of the system."

He blacked in the center with a heavy series of lines.

"Now then," he said slowly, "I'm trying to show you that this job
_is_ important. Get me straight. I know it's no cinch to go through
that damned tunnel twice a day, week after week. To blast the Cutter
through, pushing aside asteroids and slaving in the dark.

"But listen to me, Blair. You got it all wrong. You say yourself that
there's a war heading up between Parma and Vestena. If war comes
there'll be a lot of glory for the Warrior Patrol. You'll be big stuff.
You'll be a great guy. _But did it ever occur to you how Vestena plans
to attack Parma?_"

He paused dramatically, then plunged on with his story.

"Vestena fighters have to fly the long route, fifteen thousand miles
around the asteroid belt. They can't do that. The supply line is too
long. They think they're coming through the tunnel."

Freedman shook his head.

"Simple problem," he said. "We'll close the tunnel. They haven't the
brains or equipment to re-open it again."

Folley shook his head.

"We can't do that, son. When Planet Control gave us the contract for
the tunnel, it collected vast sums of money from the fifteen associated
satellites. Now war is coming between _two_ of those satellites. The
others still hold a huge interest in the tunnel. Business has to go on
as usual between those other satellites. It can't stop. The tunnel has
to be kept open. It will be."

"How?" Freedman asked.

"By an independent fighting group. By Tunnel Control."

Freedman shook his head.

"Sorry, Pete. It's a good argument, but it just isn't good enough. I
need lots of void to move in, Pete. I need the thunder of guns and
the taste of flame. Can't get it out of my system. Maybe, when it's
over...?"

Pete Folley swore.

"Graham told me it was no good arguing with you," he said in a low
voice. "Okay, Blair, desert us. Run away and join the damned army. But
don't come sniveling back to me when it's over. We'll fight our battles
without you. When we've finished, there'll be no place for a guy who
walked out on us."

Freedman felt a cold stab go up his back. He had never thought it would
be like this. Jerry Graham, and now Pete. Old Folley who had raised him
since he was a kid. He straightened his shoulders.

"If that's the way it is," he said.

"That's just the way it is," Folley said, and looked down at the desk
top with brooding eyes.

Freedman turned and went out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blair Freedman's room was barren. His things were packed neatly into
three trunks in the center of the floor. Freedman stood near the window
looking down into the street. The car from the Warrior Patrol would be
here shortly to pick him up.

He looked around the place for the last time. A queer feeling of
homesickness swept over him. This room at the Setric Hotel had served
him for the past ten years. Now he was leaving it to take over quarters
in the splendid barracks of the Warrior Patrol of the Parma Air Force.

A knock sounded on the door. Thinking the boy had come up for his bags,
he called:

"Come in."

Freedman didn't look up as the door opened. He heard footsteps near the
door, then a quiet, feminine voice said:

"Do you usually ignore your visitors?"

Freedman straightened, his face red, to stare with surprise at the
slim, honey-haired girl inside the door. She wore the uniform of the
Space Merchants of Vestena. Her neat figure seemed molded into the
scanty leather breeches and gold-cloth vest. A small light-gun hung
loosely from the belt around her waist. Was it his imagination, or did
the fingers of her right hand poise lightly over the gun?

"Hello," he said slowly. "I don't think I know you. I had expected...."

She nodded.

"The porter," she said. "Yes, I had to bribe him to let me come up."

Blair Freedman felt new warmth in his face. Anger, rising slowly, made
his fingers clench.

"Why was it so necessary to see me?"

He didn't like it. The Space Merchants were neutral, but the satellite
Vestena was stalling waiting to declare war. Could she be a spy?

The girl walked across the room and looked down on the busy square
below. Her back was turned to him. She had a way of coolly going about
her business as though he didn't exist, and speaking to him only when
she was ready to do so. He watched the slim, well-built figure, the
maze of fluffy gold that hung about the back of her neck.

"You're Blair Freedman," she said, without turning around.

"You knew that before you came up here."

Silence.

"You're going to join the Warrior Patrol?"

"If that's any of your business, yes." He was blazing mad. Mad because
she had the nerve to walk calmly into his room and question him.

"See here," he snapped, "I've got work to do. You've said your piece.
Now get out of here before I call the management."

She whirled around, facing him, solemn blue eyes staring into his.

"You asked for it," she said. "You're joining the Warrior Patrol to
make yourself a big-shot. You've got to have glory and blood. _I'll_
tell _you_ something. You bored the tunnel through the asteroid belt.
You handled the 'Cutter.' You've done the job three times now and it's
a job that one man in a thousand has the courage to tackle. Now you're
walking out on the Tunnel Patrol."

She hesitated, panting, catching her breath.

"Well, _Mr. Big_, you're walking right out into the open where they can
take a pot shot at you, and don't think they won't do it."

He took two strides toward her and grasped her wrist. He must have held
it tightly for tears started from her eyes.

[Illustration: _Instinctively he grasped her and held her tightly
against him._]

"Go ahead--hurt me. You can. You're very strong."

"_Who's_ taking pot shots at me?"

She jerked away from him violently.

"It's none of your darn business. You deserve to be shot. You're a tin
horn sport, running away from a real job to get your wings covered with
star dust."

She backed away from him, holding her wrist, her eyes blazing.

She reached the door and opened it quickly.

Freedman, completely bewildered by what had happened, started after
her. The light-gun shot into her hand and its barrel pointed at his
stomach.

"I came here to help you," she said coldly, "but I think I could shoot
now, you bull-headed, star-chasing hero."

He stopped short. The girl was beautiful, and so angry that her eyes
seemed to shoot flame.

"Who are you? Why did...?"

"I came because I thought I loved you," she clipped the words off with
an utterly matter of fact voice. "Now I find that you're so much in
love with yourself that there isn't room for anyone else."

She was gone, and the room was silent. A Parma housefly zoomed across
the room and lit on the door knob. Freedman jerked the door open and
the fly buzzed away. The hall was empty. He listened. Not a sound.

He went back in, shaking his head slowly.

"Well I'll--be...."

A girl who came from nowhere. A girl he had never seen before, and she
had come to say that she loved him, and in the same breath, threatened
to shoot him through the stomach.

Freedman sat down on the edge of the bed. He felt a little shaky....

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Breecher made a wide, sweeping gesture with his free hand.
"The Warrior Patrol of Parma." Blair Freedman sat in the cramped,
efficient little fighter rocket, following Breecher's hand as the
Warrior Patrol swept in toward the entrance to the Asteroid Tunnel.

"I'm proud to be in the force," Freedman said. "I've watched you men
for years. Always had the feeling that I had to desert those pluggy
patrol ships and get into the fighters. It's a great feeling. A clean
feeling, as though I've dropped the slow, dull life and kicked up my
heels for a real run in the void."

Breecher's head came around slowly, where he could study Freedman's
face more easily.

"Those thousand ships out there are all that lie between Parma and
destruction," he said slowly. "Yet, if it weren't for the tunnel, you
know, they would have to travel too damned far to get at us. They can
fight their war two ways. Plan a series of battles with the Warrior
Patrol, or blow up the tunnel and seal Parma behind that ungodly range
of Asteroids. Either way, Parma would choke in a few months. The tunnel
_is_ important."

Freedman nodded. It troubled him, all this reference to the tunnel.
First Folley, then the girl, and now, even Lieutenant Breecher of the
Warrior Patrol.

"Strictly routine stuff, though," he said, almost in self-defense. "A
hundred men, a few patrol ships, and an occasional trip with the Cutter
to clear out debris. That's the tunnel patrol, year after year."

The Lieutenant let well enough alone. The Warrior Patrol had swept past
now. The dull, war-painted heads on the rockets were business-like and
ready. The Lieutenant nosed his own ship into the tail of the formation
and opened his jets. They swept back toward Parma.

"There, I've shown you the boys and their ships," he said. "Tomorrow
you'll fly with them."

The ugly static of the relay-screen broke in.

"_Calling Warrior Patrol--Calling Warrior Patrol._"

"That's Leader Van Nordast," Lieutenant Breecher said in a low voice.
"Something's up."

Van Nordast's face was on the screen. He looked powerful, compact,
business-like.

"The Warrior Patrol will not come to base tonight. It will protect the
outer entrance to the asteroid tunnel.

"A hundred extra ships are being sent at once. They will join the
Patrol near the Tunnel Patrol ship, and base there until further orders
come from this office.

"Post guards and _watch that tunnel_. By tomorrow, news will be up to
date and I will give you further instructions."

The image on the screen sighed.

"You may as well know tonight. Vestena didn't wait for us to make
plans. It tried to destroy the tunnel today. Sabotage, with a few
suicide ships.

"A few men were killed but the attempt failed. That is all. Proceed to
base."

The screen was empty again, and Blair Freedman was cussing and
wondering if maybe Jerry Graham had been right.

He could fight now. He had the best equipment in the planetary system.

_A few men were killed...._

He remembered Van Nordast's words. Grim words that probably applied to
the boys he had known since childhood. Maybe Jerry was one of them.
Jerry Graham with his gray-black hair, wrinkled kindly face and gentle
eyes peering from behind his specs.

The Lieutenant hadn't spoken since the message flashed off. Now he said:

"Well, you're going to get your baptism of fire sooner than I expected."

"Yes," Freedman said. "Yes, that's right."

He was wondering if it made any difference. If Jerry was dead, he'd
have to kill a couple thousand soldiers to revenge that one kindly man.

       *       *       *       *       *

The guard ship on the outer end of the Asteroid Tunnel was anchored in
space a short distance from the tunnel itself. It had to carry its own
supplies, heavy armament and ammunition. Normally, it was capable of
holding off a dozen space fighters, sending them reeling back with the
heavy punches from its cannon.

The Warrior Patrol came in on a sweeping arc, and slowed to circle
about and finally hide the rugged, stocky mother-ship that guarded the
tunnel. Orders were given. Ships and pilots were warned not to fly too
close to the heaving mass of asteroids. They looked solid. Actually,
they were in motion every second, tons of ragged, grinding metal and
stone, heaving a few inches this way or that, destroying anything that
touched their surface.

It was through this terrifying belt of death that Blair Freedman had
first dared point the prow of the "Cutter" and had, by sheer guts, torn
a tunnel through the asteroids that served to demolish the thousands of
miles of impossible flying by the outside route to Parma.

In peace, the asteroid belt had been pierced by the needle-like tunnel
and through it commerce poured to the other worlds. It was the Panama
Canal of space. In peace time, a simple job of patrolling. In war, it
might become a hell-spot of intrigue and battle.

The Warrior Patrol had come to protect it, keep it open, and to prevent
the fighting ships of Vestena from using it to conquer Parma.

A vast set for a chess game. The pieces were placed, alert and waiting,
about the tunnel head. When would the opposing player make his first
move?

Lieutenant Blair Freedman left his ship, moved carefully up the deck
of the mother-ship and entered the air lock. In five minutes he was
talking to fat, easy going Captain Stew in the mother-ship. Captain
Stew wasn't the pudgy old gentleman's real name, but he had been
called by it for so many years that any other he may have had was long
forgotten. The Captain, with his home-made, blue denim uniform and
enormous black pipe, led Freedman into his cabin and offered him the
place of honor on his bunk.

"Sit, Blair," he said. "Suppose you heard the news?"

Freedman nodded. He hated to ask what had happened. Captain Stew was a
tough old warrior. He could hold off half an army with this big, well
armed ship. He knew how to fight and how to live. He hated to part with
men.

"What happened here?"

Stew puffed mightily on his pipe and laid it down. "Nothing much, if
they hadn't shot two of my gunners."

A tiny sigh escaped Blair's lips. Then Jerry Graham was safe.

"Night work," Stew said briefly. "Two ships passed and signalled with
our flags for permission to enter. I gave them the okay after checking
their numbers and the flight charts. They didn't go into the tunnel. I
saw them start heaving stuff out into space at the tunnel mouth.

"It was pretty dark, but I recognized the stuff they were tossing out."
He paused, then said, "Space mines."

"They planned to blow the head of the tunnel?"

Stew nodded.

"I opened fire and blew them straight to hell."

"But your men?"

Stew grunted.

"They had time to put one shot across my forward deck. Knocked out one
gun. Killed a couple of good boys."

He stood up, emptied his pipe and put it back into his mouth with bowl
upside down.

"Graham and his men came through on routine patrol just a few seconds
after those damned ships blew up," he said. "If they had hit one of
them space mines...."

Freedman stared ahead of him at the smoke darkened walls.

"That would have been tough," he said. "Well, the danger's over now."

He stood up.

"I think the Warrior Patrol is strong enough to protect the tunnel,
don't you, Captain?"

Captain Stew looked thoughtful.

"_Strong_ enough," he said, "if the rats will come out in force and
fight. Take my word for it, though, they'll make more attempts like the
one last night. This isn't the...."

Captain Stew was cut off suddenly by a mighty explosion that seemed to
come from directly below. The mother-ship took a quick lurch that sent
them both to the floor. Stew, in spite of his size, was the first to
regain his feet.

"What the...."

They stumbled out onto the deck. The darkness was sliced with orange
and red flame. The entire fleet, it seemed to Freedman, had opened fire
at a dark object disappearing toward Vestena.

He watched the object for fifteen seconds, then saw it dissolve in
white hot flame.

The guns became quiet. The decks of the mother-ship stopped shaking.
Captain Stew howled something at the top of his voice and a gunner came
running up.

"Why in the name of the Seven Ton God of Hate didn't you call me?" Stew
shouted.

The soldier, grim faced, sooted by the cannon smoke, did his own share
of cursing.

"Didn't have time," he fumed. "One ship. It sneaked up to the tunnel
mouth and didn't even show a light. It tossed out enough stuff to seal
that tunnel for keeps. Captain Stew, there's a patrol ship due through
from Parma in fifteen minutes. The tunnel's sealed tight."

       *       *       *       *       *

Freedman knew the ship. _His_ ship was due, with Graham at the wheel.
Freedman knew where the radio was on the mother-ship. He dashed down
the deck.

The radio man was flashing signals to Parma, warning all flights to
wait for approval to come ahead.

Freedman slammed himself down at the board.

He plugged in the tunnel speaker. The power board showed zero. The
mighty voice that could speak to anyone in the tunnel was dead.

"The guns shook some wires loose," the control man said. "We'll try the
electro-screen."

They worked swiftly, trying to contact Jerry Graham. Finally his voice
came on to the screen. He had a cheerful grin on his face.

"Hey," he said, "what's wrong at tunnel head? I'm getting a whistle
on the screen but I can't tune you in. Something wrong with your
transmission."

"For Heaven's sake, Jerry," Freedman shouted, "turn back, don't come
through."

Graham looked puzzled.

"Seems like I hear a voice," Graham was saying. His eyes were bright
and sparkling behind his specs. "You guys playing a joke on me? I can
hear something that sounds like a voice, but I can't hear words. Just a
jumble."

"Jerry," Freedman shouted. "The tunnel head is blown out."

The control man was working furiously with the set.

"Sure, we'll have a blow out," Graham said. The smile was broad on
his lips. Five minutes to the tunnel head. Five minutes between that
smile--and sudden death.

"What the hell," Freedman said. "We've got to get this set running."

"Hey," Jerry Graham was saying, "what _is_ wrong with your sender? The
screen is blurred. The static is awful. Clear it up, will you?"

"Can't," Freedman mumbled to himself. Perspiration stood out on his
face. "Can't, Jerry. Can't."

The control man continued to work.

"Never had this happen before," he said. "Guns were raising hell for a
while. They blew out the tubes on both sets. Wire shorted somewhere.
Can't find it."

Freedman looked at the clock.

"One minute," he said in a humble, frightened voice. "One minute of
life for Jerry." He paused and then put his face close to the screen.

"Jerry," he shouted, "Jerry, for God's sake, go back. The tunnel...."

It wasn't any use. Before he stopped talking, Graham said:

"Wow, this is _too_ much. You guys sound like a bunch of wailing
banshees. I'm signing off until you get that sender running again."

"_Jerry_...."

There was something wild and uncontrolled in Freedman's plea.

The screen clicked and was white. Dead white, like a sheet drawn over a
corpse.

Freedman sat there, idly holding his watch, his face pale, eyes vacant.
The control man kept on working, patiently, carefully. After a long
time Freedman looked at his watch. He stood up. He walked unsteadily
toward the door, to meet Captain Stew coming in.

"Guess everything is okay up there," Stew motioned back toward the
deck. "Did you contact Graham?"

Freedman couldn't hear him. He pushed Stew aside and went out, staring
across the void at the line upon line of fighters, grouped like
soldiers at attention.

Behind him, Captain Stew spoke to the control man.

"What the hell's burning him up?"

The control man's head came up slowly from the set.

"He ain't feeling so good," he said. "Seems like he deserted a pal a
while back, and now his pal's dead. I think he's kinda sorry he wasn't
on the job when it happened."

Stew nodded slowly.

"That's tough," he said. "I guess I know how he must feel."

       *       *       *       *       *

Blair Freedman stood rigidly before the desk, arms at his sides, eyes
on Peter Folley. Folley didn't look up. He gripped Freedman's release
papers in his hand. He wasn't reading them.

"So you came back?"

Freedman didn't answer.

"I suppose on account of Jerry, huh?" Folley said. "You were talking to
Jerry just before he died, they said."

Freedman found his voice.

"I tried to warn him."

Folley nodded slightly.

"If you had been with him, you'd have known the tunnel head was
blocked. You had that gift, the sense of feeling pressure changes. You
would have saved Jerry."

Freedman didn't answer. He had left the Warrior Patrol and come back to
his old job again. He had to carry on for Jerry Graham.

"Well," Folley said suddenly, "I know what you want, and I don't need
you. You quit once. That's enough. Go back and get all the glory you
can out of army life. We'll get along."

He stood up and turned his back to Freedman.

Freedman picked up the release papers and put them into his pocket
slowly. His hands shook.

"Pete," he said, "I was a fool. It took Jerry's death to make me see
it. I came back to say I was sorry. Jerry Graham was like a brother to
me. I want the old job back. I want to open the tunnel and keep it
open."

Pete Folley faced him slowly. He looked very tired. His face was pale
and dark pockets stood out under his eyes.

"I'm giving up," he said desperately. "I can't fight alone. Ten of my
best men have been killed in a week. As fast as we open the tunnel,
an enemy ship darts in and commits suicide to blow it closed again. I
haven't got the men or the guts to keep on fighting. It's up to the
Warrior Patrol to protect the tunnel. Your place is with them."

Freedman wanted to help Folley then. Wanted to prove his worth all over
again.

"Pete, you and I started the tunnel. We always have kept it open. If we
work together now, I think we can do it again. You, I and--Jerry."

There was a brief flash of hope in Folley's eyes. Then it faded and he
looked glum.

"Okay," he said, "You know where the Cutter is. Take it out in the
morning. You're on the payroll, as long as there is one."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Tunnel Patrol, in spite of its homely name and lack of dignity
was a big organization. Its field and hangars housed a hundred speedy
patrol ships, tons of special earth moving equipment, and last but most
powerful, the ship referred to as the Cutter.

Freedman came down the field to the huge building that housed the
Cutter. He slipped quietly into the side door, still shivering from the
cold morning fog that had settled on the port. He paused, old memories
surging through him. Memories of the long days and nights he and Jerry
had spent behind the instrument board of the huge craft.

The Cutter was officially labelled Z1000. Its vast bulk filled a space
equal to a city block. Its bulky, blade covered nose wasn't graceful.
In fact, the whole ship looked like a vast, bloated sausage with spiral
blades attached to its bow, and a number of stove pipe lengths at the
stern which shot out thunderous potions of fire and gas.

It was a special job, the Z1000. It was a working man's ship. A ship
that you couldn't batter and destroy. The Z1000 could take it. It had
taken unbelievable punishment already and it was ready for more.

Freedman mounted the ladder and went into the belly of the ship. It was
like coming home again. He half expected to hear Jerry Graham shout to
him from the navigation room above.

"Damned imagination," he said aloud. He said it bitterly.

His voice came back to him, a hollow thing echoing through the interior
of the Cutter.

He climbed the series of steps and came out on the platform behind the
blades. He entered the navigation room. Already the doors of the hangar
were rolled back by the electric-finger he had touched as he came in.

No use waiting for anyone or anything. He was flying alone. Freedman
adjusted the fuel indicators. Folley had told him last night that the
lanes would be open and no ships were maneuvering this side of the
tunnel. He drew back the rocket release levers, sat back and adjusted
the delicate headphones that would tell him what the blades on the
ship's nose were doing. Then, as though riding behind a plugging work
horse, he started to doze.

This, he thought, hasn't the speed or the flash of the fighting ships.
It's a tough job to do. But I'll do it.

The job wasn't a pleasant one. Freedman knew that near the far end of
the tunnel, wedged into the debris of the wrecked tunnel, his old ship,
the X26, was laying. In the control room, if there was still a control
room, Jerry Graham's crushed corpse would be stretched across the
instrument panel.

An endless hour passed.

The flight was no longer routine. He was nearing the end of the tunnel.
The Cutter, Z1000 had taken the grinding, tearing trip easily, and
her plates were hardly heated by the occasional edges she had to rip
from the tunnel. He slowed the huge sausage-like ship and watched the
instruments closely. Fifteen miles--then only ten.

He braked the ship and paused. Here, according to the instruments, the
X26 would be wedged.

Grimly, Freedman donned the oxygen suit, turned on the powerful lamps
that would light his way in the inky black tunnel, opened the forward
hatch and went out. Ahead and all around him were the dense metals and
rocks of the tunnel. The crushing, tearing sounds, always present in
this weird place, seemed worse today. He climbed carefully out on the
huge cutter blades, down the emergency ladder and jumped to the X26.
It wasn't as badly wrecked as he had feared. That didn't mean that it
would fly again, or that there was any hope of Graham being alive. He
knew that the X26 had hit with a speed that would insure at least a
broken neck for near-sighted Jerry.

No sense kidding yourself, Blair, he thought.

He worked his way into the broken hatch of the X26, found a heavy
emergency bar and tore the door to the main cabin open. It was as he
thought. Jerry hadn't known what happened. The accident had come too
fast. Jerry had been thrown to the floor. There were no marks on his
body. His lips were parted in amazement, but no horror.

Freedman choked back a sob, picked Graham up tenderly and went back
along the wrecked corridor. In the Z1000 he placed Graham on one of the
emergency bunks, strapped him down and covered the body with a blanket.
His teeth were gritted tightly together. His knuckles were white. He
felt little emotion, or rather, tried to steel himself against feeling
it.

Back in the control room, he sat down, pulled out the special valve
release that ran the Cutter blades and waited for their steady,
powerful rhythm to tell him that they were ready to cut.

This was a part of the business that had always thrilled him. Today it
was just a job. A dirty, routine job. There wasn't any pleasure in it.

He thought of Jerry. Jerry who had laughed and gone to his death
because a certain Blair Freedman had deserted him and tried to find
glory.

The cutters were gyrating at a terrific speed now. The nose of the
Z1000 was hot with the movement of the bearings. Freedman turned on the
oilers. Long, thick jets of oil started to shoot out ahead of the ship,
glancing off the blades, oiling the rocks.

Savagely, as though this was a personal battle, Freedman turned on the
forward power. The Z1000 hit the remains of the wrecked patrol ship,
ripped through it and into the sullen, slow moving mass of metal and
rock. It shuddered once, then settled down, matching its blades against
the mass.

[Illustration: _The Z1000 moved stolidly ahead, its blades roaring._]

It moved stolidly ahead, and the roar of the blades drowned out
everything else.

The wall wouldn't be thick. Freedman grimaced. He remembered the months
he had spent ripping through the first time.

He'd like to go on tearing and gouging, fighting the only way he
knew--fighting nature.

Those slim, tube like army ships weren't for him. His job was to slog
along, ripping away at the barrier that at once protected and cut off
his home satellite from the other satellite nations.

The Z1000 was a fighting ship that would never enter the war directly,
and yet affected its course more vividly than any single unit of the
fleet.

_Never enter the war directly?_

Freedman wondered. Listening to the inhuman power of the Cutter,
he wondered. It might be feasible. He had never studied speeds and
pressures. Just how much punishment could the big ship take?

Suddenly, with a lurch, the Z1000 tore itself from the wall and flew
out into space.

Swiftly, as the cutters were already whirring upward toward a breaking
speed, Freedman cut the power and idled in space. To his left, the
fleet was drawn up in neat battle lines. Captain Stew's guard ship was
floating about, and he knew that Stew himself would be watching him
coming. They had been listening to his thunderous battle with the rocks
for some minutes.

For a second Freedman felt elation because he had once more battled
with nature and won. Then he remembered Jerry Graham, stretched
lifelessly on the bunk in the room below.

The fight was just starting.

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl stood on the apron near the hangar. Though it was dark, he
knew her at once. In the light of the moon, she seemed more like a
ghost than a woman. Her hair was like a soft gold crown. Her dress, cut
close to her body, was white and of rare Vestena silk.

Freedman wanted to avoid her, and yet there was that mystery that
clung to her and forced him to walk toward her.

"You've come back from the tunnel," she said.

Her voice was low.

He nodded. He was tired. He had just called the authorities and asked
them to remove Graham's body from the Z1000. The tunnel was open again
and the fleet guarded it. He needed rest.

"The tunnel is open. You told me I was a tin-horn sport. I don't know
who you are, but you were right. I'm working in the tunnel again.
That's what you wanted."

Though he had seen her only once before, he was anxious to please her.
She was like an angel, appearing only when he needed her, and slipping
away into the night again.

"You're still feeling very much like a hero, aren't you?" she
challenged. "You've just opened the tunnel. You're tired and you want
to be alone. You've done something big and wonderful."

He didn't try to explain to her. He didn't tell her of Jerry's crushed
body in the ship and how he, himself, felt crushed and weary.

"No ... I...."

"Don't talk to me," she said scornfully. Fire danced in her eyes. The
fresh wind sent her hair, the flimsy gown, flying in the wind. "I told
you I loved you once."

"I don't even know you," he protested. "Why have you chosen me?"

Her voice was steady now. Steady and like a whip lash.

"Because I knew you from the time you entered the patrol as a boy," she
said. "I worshipped you from afar, and I know of everything you did.
I talked to my father every day, sometimes more often than that. He
thought the planet system would have fallen apart if you hadn't been
here to steady it."

_Her father?_

"You seem determined to punish me," he said unsteadily. He could hear
the ambulance car rocketing across the field now. They were coming for
Jerry.

"I'll go on punishing you," she said. "If it hadn't been for you, Dad
wouldn't be dead now, laying over there in that ship."

_Dad? Jerry Graham?_

"You're not...?"

Her nod was barely discernible.

"Jerry Graham lived on Vestena for many years," she said. "When mother
died, he put me into a community school. He came here. He never told
anyone...." Her voice broke.

"Through my father, I worshipped you. It's all dead now. If I can find
a way to hurt you, I'll do it."

She whirled and was gone, a slim, windswept figure in the vast darkness
of the field.

He started to run after her. Then he saw the tiny, sport-model rocket
plane parked at the edge of the apron. She was in it and the rockets
were exploding before he could reach her.

She waved her arm at him as the ship leaped forward. She shouted
something that was drowned in the roar of rocket exhaust. Then she was
gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Peter Folley was talking. "The jig's up, Blair. The Vestena merchants
have signed an oath to refuse further trade with Parma. You know what
that means?"

Blair Freedman nodded. It didn't make any difference to him now. Not,
at least, until he found Sheila Graham and made her understand how he
really felt about Jerry's death.

"I suppose we'll close the tunnel?"

Folley shook his head and frowned.

"No, that's the bad part of it. We've got to hold the tunnel open."

He leaned forward, tapping his pencil.

"United Satellites, comprising fifteen powers, accepted a contract
to open the tunnel, on the promise that we would _keep_ it open. Now
there's a war between Vestena and Parma. The Merchants of Vestena won't
buy from us, and the tunnel was used mostly by their ships. Yet, even
if the other powers no longer use the tunnel, we promised to keep it
open in the event they do. They won't release us from that contract.
Now we've got to keep open our most vulnerable approach. We've got to
protect it from the people who will leave no stone unturned in their
effort to destroy us by attacking through the tunnel. It's a nasty
mess."

It was nasty. Freedman realized it. But this was an army job. A job for
the Warrior Patrol.

He stood up.

"I'll keep my end going," he said. "I'm doing three patrols every day.
When you need the Z1000, you know where to find me."

He was half way to the door when Folley stopped him.

"What's eating you, Blair?" Folley asked abruptly.

Freedman whirled around.

"Jerry's death for one thing," he said.

Folley shook his head.

"I know," he said. "There's something else. I'd almost swear you were
in love, with that miserable, whipped pup look you've been carrying on
your map."

Blair didn't answer. Damned nonsense, he thought. He wanted to see
Sheila Graham. But not because he was in love with her. He wanted to
explain about Jerry, and tell her that he felt as miserable about it as
she did.

She, supposedly, was on Vestena, the enemy satellite.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Stew strode up and down the cabin, his huge paunch moving ahead
of him like an anchored balloon. Stew was angry. Angry clean through.
He showed it with his frown, the set of his lips. He said:

"The damned army isn't getting anywhere. Look here, Freedman, what's
gonna happen when the Vestena fleet attacks and enters the tunnel?"

Blair Freedman had been with Stew for several hours. He was almost
ready for the return patrol trip now. He stood up wearily.

"That's the worry of the Warrior Patrol," he said. "My orders are to
keep the tunnel open."

Captain Stew stopped pacing the floor.

"Sure," he said. "Sure, you're in the clear. Look at it like I do.
Eight times now, Vestena suicide ships have shot in here and dropped
explosives into the tunnel mouth. Eight times you've plowed them out
again. Not once has the Vestena army attacked.

"When they do, they're going straight through to the other end of the
tunnel. There isn't room _inside_ the tunnel to fight. There isn't any
Parma fleet at the other end.

"Damned if we can stop them here. They'll be in the tunnel before we
have time to strike."

Freedman shrugged.

"Blow up the tunnel."

"Sure," Stew bellowed, "and have every satellite in the system on our
neck. This ain't war boy. It's politics, and Parma has its political
neck stuck out right over the block."

       *       *       *       *       *

Freedman read the note a dozen times. He propped it up near the mirror
as he shaved, trying to figure out why Sheila would trouble herself
again with him. _Blair Freedman_, it said, _meet me at the Z1000 hangar
tonight at moonrise._ He scowled at the mirror as he shaved. The girl
had admitted that she lived with the Space Merchants on Vestena.
Admitted that she was actually from an enemy country. It took nerve, he
thought, for her to come here alone.

He was undecided about the proposed meeting at the hangar. Was it some
sort of a trap? She had threatened him. Freedman smiled. Threatened by
a girl. He washed his face, donned a fresh tunic and laced it. He found
his space pistol, always worn in these unstable days, and strapped it
on.

Moonrise, he thought, and made a mental calculation. Half hour to ten.
Here I come, Miss Graham, and no tricks please.

He locked the door behind him and went down to the rocket car in the
hotel court.

The Z1000 bulked huge and secure in the semi-darkness of the hangar.
The low moon was coming up slowly, and the high moon already shot its
pale rays from the Larr Mountains in the opposite direction. This was
one of those rare, beautiful nights when Parma seemed to bask proudly
in the light of its moons. A night for peace, Freedman thought, and
Vestena ships probably already on the prowl.

He walked up and down in front of the Z1000. A tiny ship shot over the
far edge of the field and landed daintily near the hangar apron. It
rolled up until the shadow of the hangar almost hid it. Sheila Graham
jumped out and came toward him. She was at his side before he saw the
frightened look on her face.

She took his hand.

"You're a man of honor," she said in a clipped, matter-of-fact voice.
"I've had to change my mind about you. You're doing a good job."

She let go of his hand and stared earnestly into his eyes.

"You know nothing of me. Perhaps I'm not Sheila Graham. I come from
enemy territory. Would you trust me on a very important mission?"

He stared at her. It didn't make sense. He saw the fright in her
eyes. He knew that she had something of great importance on her mind.
Something that she must do and yet feared to try without his help.

"I don't understand," he said. He was careful not to show his true
feelings toward this childlike, delicate girl from Vestena. She wasn't
born to fight, yet she seemed to be a fighter. "First you hate me, then
you ask for help. What changed your mind?"

Her face was tinged with sudden color.

"I don't hate you," she said, and turned away, staring toward the moon
that had just touched the top of the Larr Range. "I think you made a
mistake. That mistake cost my father's life. Since then, you've done
a loyal job. I can't tell you what we're going to do, but I know that
with your help we can do it."

He waited, saying nothing.

"The ships of Vestena attack tonight," she said in a shaking voice.
"We--you and I are going to stop them."

"Attack the whole army? Why didn't you notify the Warrior Fleet at the
tunnel head? They could have been ready."

He wheeled away from her, but she caught up and put her hand on his arm.

"They can do nothing," she said. "The Vestena fleet sent a decoy army.
The Warrior Fleet of Parma is thousands of miles out in space, pursuing
a dummy army--an army of empty, robot-controlled ships that left
Vestena hours ago.

"Now the true fleet is somewhere near the tunnel head, poised for a
quick dash through."

"How do I know you're telling the truth?"

Her eyes were steady on his.

"_You've never doubted a word I've spoken._"

Odd, he thought, but I never have. Why? Then he knew why. He was
looking into Jerry Graham's eyes. The eyes of a man he had trusted
above everyone else. This was his daughter. There could be no doubt.

"I've got to warn the command at the city," he said.

She shook her head.

"There is no time. They can do nothing. The important thing is to stop
the Vestena fleet from getting through the tunnel."

She started to run toward the Z1000. Over her shoulder she called to
him.

"I have a plan. You must help. I can't operate the Cutter."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were in the tunnel, and Freedman was confident once more. At the
controls of the Z1000, he felt at ease. At his side, Sheila Graham was
asking hurried questions.

"What speed can the blades carry?"

He told her.

"And the hull. How thick is it?"

He chuckled without humor.

"If you hit it with a city block at a thousand miles an hour, it might
break."

She was figuring with a pen-stick on the smooth surface of the control
board.

"How far are we into the tunnel?"

He consulted the mileage chart.

"Half way. It's...."

"Good," she said. "Turn on the blades. Use all the power you have."

There was an undercurrent of fear in her voice. He was sure that she
struggled with herself at this moment to keep from breaking down. When
she spoke again, the howl of the rotating blades drowned all other
sound. Without stone or metal to work on, the blades were screaming at
top speed, cooled only by the oil. The Z1000 was a strange, rumbling
giant, stumbling ahead in the darkness.

"Blair," Sheila Graham said quietly, "Are you afraid to die?"

He felt cold beads of perspiration stand out on his forehead. The cabin
was growing very hot. Deep down he had known all along but now, as
he faced it consciously, he had to fight for control. His hands were
clammy on the wheel.

"I told you I loved you very much once," she said. He didn't dare turn
and look at her. This wasn't any time to go soft. "I haven't changed my
mind. This was a very strange love affair, wasn't it?"

She didn't wait for his answer, but stumbled on, her voice eager.

"I haven't very much time to talk. Blair, I fell in love with you
when I saw your picture. When Vestena became hostile, I was declared
an orphan. I couldn't see Dad and he couldn't reclaim me. A rich man
adopted me. He was a high member of the Space Merchants organization."

She sighed.

"I used to read about the work you and Dad did. That's why I was so
badly hurt and angry when you left him to his death."

"I could get away from Vestena when I wished. My foster-father owned
three ships. I learned the plan of the Vestena fleet from him. I waited
until I knew how and when they would strike. Then I came back to you. I
knew you'd be the only one to help."

He was silent. Then:

"It seems like old times," he said, slowly. "Seems as though Jerry and
I are together again."

Her fingers touched his neck. She kissed him on the cheek. Her lips
were soft and very warm. "Dad is here, I think. I'm a pretty important
part of Jerry. We loved each other very much."

He was busy now. Busy keeping the Z1000 in one piece. If he kept up
the dizzy power rate long, and the blades didn't meet an obstruction,
they'd fly off and destroy the ship.

"How long do we have?"

She sighed.

"The fleet will be in the tunnel in two minutes. We should meet them in
three."

"We'll stop them," he said in a harsh whisper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oil was sloshing and flying over the Cutter's blades. He listened to
the unholy roar of the motor, then pushed the power lever down as far
as it would go. The Z1000 leaped ahead a little faster. The blades sang
a song of destruction.

In the cabin the heat became stifling. No longer able to see through
the steamed windows, he turned out the lights. In the darkness, the red
hot plates over the motor shaft made the place glow like a tiny hell.
The extra power from the batteries hummed madly.

"Sheila," he turned toward her. In the glow of the hot plates, he could
see her face, as pale as glistening shell. Her eyes were moist and her
face was close to his.

Then he could say no more, because her lips were pressed tightly to his.

"Blair, is there a chance ... any chance at all?"

"The Z1000 was designed to cut rock and metal," he said. "I don't think
the engineers ever planned to stop an army with it."

Two minutes. Then fifty seconds. Would the Vestena army be on time?

The blades were good for another five minutes at most. After that....

"_Blair._"

It was Sheila, her lips parted by a startled cry. Instinctively he
grasped her and held her tightly against him in the heavily padded
chair.

Ahead of them, bright fingers of light probed the darkness; lights
that expanded rapidly, blindingly. The blades found something. There
was a sound of ripping and tearing as metal shrieked against metal in
deafening protest. The Z1000 stopped.

Still the hurtling lights of the Vestena fighters came on. One after
the other, like blind fireflies, they flashed into the tunnel to
be ground to bits by the screaming blades of the Cutter. Then the
Z1000 lurched sickeningly. The enemy ships, ripping through the now
broken and slowing blades, pounded at full speed into its hull. Blair
Freedman, staggering and half-unconscious from the shock, sought for
the controls. He was too late. The Z1000 had stopped running. He
reached blindly for Sheila....

Outside, the tunnel was a hell of noise. Showering sparks cast an eerie
red glow that was occasionally punctuated by the blinding white flash
of an explosion. Ship after ship pelted into the buckling plates of the
Cutter until the cavernous maw of the tunnel became a molten mass of
smashed, twisted scrap.

Then, gradually, the noise died down as the last Vestena ship hurled
itself into oblivion. The shriek of mangled metal was stilled. The
fires flickered into darkness.

And in the control cabin of the huge Z1000, Blair Freedman and Sheila
Graham, battered almost beyond recognition, lay in each other's
arms--united in the final sacrifice of death.





End of Project Gutenberg's Through the Asteroids--To Hell!, by Leroy Yerxa

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THROUGH THE ASTEROIDS--TO HELL! ***

***** This file should be named 63720.txt or 63720.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/7/2/63720/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
