The Project Gutenberg EBook of Love Among the Robots, by Emmett McDowell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Love Among the Robots

Author: Emmett McDowell

Release Date: November 20, 2020 [EBook #63821]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LOVE AMONG THE ROBOTS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         Love Among The Robots

                          By EMMETT McDOWELL

             Henry Ohm, staid scientist, found he couldn't
           keep his mind on his work--with that girl around.
           Such was the development of her--ah--personality
               that even the robots began getting ideas!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Henry Ohm leaped to his feet, stared across the intervening ground at
igloo number 2, plainly visible through the clear plastic walls. Its
door had just been flung violently open. Then Sofi Jokai scooted out
and fled madly across the jagged surface of the asteroid.

Hard on the girl's heels pounded R-7. The robot, Hen saw with a gulp,
was waving a large wrench in one metal fist.

"Oh-oh!" Hen muttered and plunged down the incline for the airlock.

He shot a second glance through the transparent curved walls, slowed
down. The robot would never catch Sofi. Even burdened by her oxygen
suit, the girl was leaving R-7 far in the rear.

At the airlock, Henry Ohm paused, regarding the chase with sober,
deep-set black eyes. He was a tall, thin young man, nearing thirty.
His face was narrow; prominent cheek bones and a thin, straight nose
gave his features an angular pleasant mould. He made no move to don
the emergency oxygen helmet beside the lock, but waited with a vague
expression of annoyance.

Sofi reached the airlock, burst inside, sealed and locked the outer
door behind her. The air had scarcely filled the chamber before she
flung open the inner door, confronted Henry Ohm, and exploded into a
flood of angry words. Not a sound escaped her plastic helmet which she
had forgotten to remove.

He let her rattle away silently inside her helmet, nodding at
intervals, rubbing his chin until she paused for breath.

"That's what you get for trying to run a mine all alone on this
god-forsaken asteroid," he informed her, "even if you are a
yellow-haired hell cat."

Sofi looked at him blankly.

Ohm rapped with his knuckles on her helmet. "If you'd take that thing
off, you could hear me. But you're the excitable type. Probably have an
overactive thyroid."

Sofi jerked off her helmet. She had a mass of fine wavy yellow hair cut
like a halo about her oval face. Her features were delicately moulded,
her eyes large and blue. She was only a few inches shorter than Henry
Ohm, but more slenderly built.

"What the hell were you saying?" she demanded suspiciously.

"I wanted to know what you'd been doing to the robots this time?"

"Me?"

"What happened in the mine?"

"Rational robots!" Sofi Jokai planted hands on slender but ample hips.
"I was an idiot to listen to you, Hen."

He repressed a chuckle. His glance flicked to the surface of the
asteroid beyond the plastic walls of the igloo. R-7, he saw, had taken
a stance at the lock like a cat at a mouse hole.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although built along the general design of man, the robot was no
grotesque copy. He was a complex functional piece of machinery as
beautiful in his way as the cobwebby spans of a bridge, a streamlined
jet plane, or a fine watch.

"But Sofi, they're still in the experimental stage. They--"

"Experimental's right," the girl interrupted passionately. "D'you
realize what R-7 has done now?"

He grinned. "No. What?"

"He's taken the mining worm apart--that's what. I knew he would!"

"Knew he would? Did you warn him not to?"

"Yes. Of course I did. I had to leave him to check the reduction plant.
I had a presentiment...."

"Woman's intuition, I suppose," Hen interrupted. "You'd sold yourself
on the idea R-7 was going to take the worm apart."

"If you like," returned Sofi in a chilly voice. "When I came back, R-7
was gone and the worm was strewn all over the floor. I was furious. I
found R-7 on the fourth level. I started to land into him, but--but--"

"But what?"

"He looked so queer."

"How the hell can a piece of machinery look queer?"

"Well, he did," said Sofi indignantly. "He looked as if he was going to
take me apart, too!"

Henry groaned. "Go on," he said resignedly.

"Why, then R-7 wanted to know if I was put together or if I came all in
one piece." She bit her lip. "He started to find out."

She slipped off the oxygen suit. She was clad in comfortable baggy
coveralls similar to Hen's.

"That rascal," Hen chuckled. Sofi grew pink with rage.

"Rascal!" she retorted witheringly. "Is that all you can say? One of
those mechanical monstrosities dismantles the worm, then starts on
me--and you think it's cute!"

"Well, it's damned queer they always react emotionally when you're
around."

Sofi set her jaw, began to stride up the incline. She was a rangy girl
with a long pantherish stride. Hen followed her, his brow furrowed.

When they came out on the sun deck of the two-storied half-sphere of
clear plastic that was the living quarters, he began, "I'll take a look
at the mining worm. I think I can get it reassembled all right." He
frowned, cracked his bony knuckles. "The robots have been developing
some unexpected quirks. I wouldn't be surprised, Sofi, if this
tinkering with machinery isn't the expression of a sexual urge. The
emergence of an instinct to perpetuate the species...."

"Sexual urge!" Sofi Jokai halted before Hen, shook her finger under his
nose. "If I could sneak up behind R-7, he'd never make calf-eyes at
another mining worm!"

But Hen wasn't listening. He fumbled in the pockets of his coveralls,
resurrected a notebook, wrote: "Robots manifesting decided curiosity
towards machinery. May be emergence of secondary sex characteristics."
He frowned, added in bold script: "Have noted nascent antipathy towards
organic life." Again he hesitated, then scrawled: "Shows signs of
developing into active antagonism." He snapped the notebook shut,
jammed it in his pocket.

"Where are you going," Sofi asked as he started for the door.

"Get my oxygen suit. I want a look at their mining worm."

"You'd better take a crowbar along to fend off R-7."

"Poor psychology," Hen replied with more confidence than he felt. "Fear
and coercion'll only cause their antagonism to become firmly implanted.
The rational robot, Sofi, can be either the greatest single step man
has made towards freedom or...."

"Or what?"

"Enslavement!" It sounded sententious after he had said it. But it was
true. He started for the door again.

"What do you mean by that crack?" Sofi stopped him.

He didn't answer her directly. Instead, he replied: "I'm not sure that
Robots Incorporated didn't make a mistake when they selected this
asteroid as a proving ground. It's too...."

"Don't you go turning in any report like that!" interrupted the girl
hotly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sofi Jokai had been operating her wildcat uranium mine on a shoestring
before Robots Incorporated approached her with their proposition. Now
the corporation was paying all the operational expenses so that the
proceeds of the mine were pure gravy. Further, they had guaranteed
that any improvements which they installed would automatically revert
to Sofi when the experimental units were withdrawn. Machinery damaged
by the robots was to be replaced at the corporation's expense. A
substantial bonus to compensate for the risk involved was included.
Robots Incorporated hadn't even over-looked Henry Ohm, their
experimental physicist, whom they'd sent along to check the robots.
Sofi was to get a monthly check to cover Henry Ohm's board, lodging and
nuisance value.

"Hell," said Sofi, "R-7 can chase me twice around the asteroid before
breakfast. Just because I blew my top about the mining worm doesn't
mean...."

"That's got nothing to do with it," Hen said grimly. "The asteroid's
too well adapted to the robots' needs. Airless, waterless, an abundant
supply of metals. There's the laboratory. Your mine and equipment. And
only the two of us as a check on them."

"Check?" Sofi's blue eyes had gradually widened. "What are you driving
at?"

"Why do you suppose Robots Incorporated chose this asteroid as a
proving ground?"

"They--they said the mine would afford an opportunity to observe how
well the robots adapted themselves to actual working conditions."

"That's not all. They wouldn't let you go into this blind."

"No," she admitted nervously. "They mentioned something else that
struck me at the time, but it was too golden an opportunity to pass up.
They said that should the experiment prove--ah--impractical, they would
have the infection isolated on a small asteroid well out in the belt."

"Exactly. Look, I helped develop these robots. I've been on the problem
seven years, but it was started long before I joined the experimental
staff of Robots Incorporated." He paused.

"In fact," he went on dryly, "they were predicted even before science
had advanced to a point where it could set up the intricate nervous
system necessary. A conscious machine, Sofi, is the result of
fusing two sciences which have always been considered more or less
antagonistic."

"You mean psychology and physics?" Sofi had begun to pace nervously up
and down the room.

He nodded.

"It was a logical deduction from mechanistic psychology, which itself
is an outgrowth of the old school of Behaviorism. Mental life is
response to stimulus. Consciousness is like the spark between two
electrodes in a circuit of feeling arising from viscera, muscles, blood
vessels, glands--"

"Get to the point!" commanded Sofi.

Hen set his jaw. He was sounding like a lecturer, he realized. But it
annoyed him for the girl to point it out.

"I'm getting there as fast as I can. We were faced with devising an
intricate mechanical nervous system. Thus, should a joint grow warm
from lack of lubrication, an impulse of distress could be telegraphed
to the central clearing center, identified, shunted to the lubricatory
system which would oil the joints. A spark of consciousness would be
created. It would manifest itself as acute distress in the defective
joint.

"We incorporated a simple metabolism by which the robots converted raw
stuff into fuel and lubrication. The rest of the mechanism was much
the same as that of any animal confronted by the necessity of self
preservation. Organs for locomotion and work. Organs for perception."

Sofi frowned. "So?"

"Most things in nature serve multiple purposes. Arms and legs are no
exception. They provide offensive as well as defensive weapons. We've
succeeded in building a conscious machine without any adequate control."

"But you sound as if you thought it might turn on man," protested the
girl with a shudder. "Why should it?"

"For the same reason we built it," he said with a touch of irony.
"Freedom. So long as it doesn't learn to reproduce itself, though, it's
not a danger. That is, not to the race."

"But a machine! Surely you can forecast how a machine will act!"

"Can we?" His voice was savage. "How would a conscious machine react
to its environment? What would its thoughts be? I tell you, once it
integrates itself, we have no means of predicting its reactions!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Once in his own quarters, Henry Ohm began dragging on his oxygen suit.
He could still see the girl through the glass partitions of the igloo.
She had dropped into a chair, lit a cigarette.

"About as private," he thought wryly, "as a gold fish bowl."

The igloos, he knew, were manufactured for housing on the airless
asteroids of the belt. They were built of a clear thermal plastic and
incorporated heating, atmosphere and water units. Henry Ohm felt rather
strongly though that the partitions could have been clouded.

Sofi's holdings had not been designed to accommodate visitors. In fact,
Henry Ohm had spent the past week in a state of mild embarrassment.

He settled his helmet over his head, bolted it in place. He glanced
toward the living room, but Sofi wasn't there. Then he saw her in her
own quarters. She was skinning out of her coveralls, preparing to
shower.

"Damn all glass houses," he muttered and bolted for the air lock.

Hen emerged on the surface, swept the tight horizon with his eyes. It
was empty of life. R-7 had lost patience, evidently, and wandered off.

To the left was the laboratory and machine shop, a gleaming plastic
igloo resembling the living quarters. Robots Incorporated had provided
it for him to observe, diagnose, repair his mechanical charges. Beyond
the laboratory a somewhat larger igloo housed the mine shaft, reduction
plant and tipple. A dilapidated tramp freighter sprawled beside the
tipple like a foundered whale.

Hen frowned. Operations had come to a halt. He could catch no glimpse
of movement through the plastic walls.

He lengthened his stride, passed through the door, still open just
as Sofi had left it when she fled. The interior reminded him of the
appearance of a shop from which the proprietor has just stepped to buy
a paper.

A subtle feeling of uneasiness began to pervade his whole being. He
descended the shaft in the automatic cage. The light was burning on
each of the four levels. Tools had been abandoned and left lying on the
floors. He found the dismembered anatomy of the mining worm on level
three. But of the eight robots there was no sign.

Hen ran the cage back to the surface at top speed. He was sweating
profusely. A trickle kept running off his forehead into his eye. He
pawed at the plastic helmet, shook his head. Then perversely his nose
began to itch.

It did no good to tell himself these were nervous manifestations. He
could only grit his teeth and suffer. He ran outside, glanced hopefully
about the surface once more.

The landscape was rough, inhospitable, barren, resembling a clinker on
a larger scale. The sun hung just above the western horizon. It was a
brilliant but unimposing disc about the size of a dime.

There was still no sign of the robots.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hen swore softly to himself. In a few minutes it would be dark. It was
hopeless to begin a search now. He returned to his quarters in the
igloo, shucked off the oxygen suit.

Maybe he could raise them with the radio. The robots' hearing and
speaking apparatus extended beyond the range of audible sound into the
realm of electro-magnetic waves. He went out to the sun deck, switched
on the communicator. He was unable to contact them, though. There was
no ionized strata of air on the asteroid to reflect the waves back to
the surface, and he concluded they had wandered below the horizon.

With a groan, he flung himself into a chair. He pulled the notebook out
of his pocket, thumbed through the pages, reading bits here and there.

"... machine thought processes diverging from human at progressively
increasing rate ... amazing deductive and assimilative faculties.
Able to assimilate page of text at a glance. But seem to lack
creativeness...."

He paused, frowned, wondering if the inability to perform creative,
inductive thinking wasn't a fundamental limitation of the machine.
Organic life differed in four precepts which until a short time ago
science had been unable to duplicate. It was able to grow and reproduce
itself; it felt emotion and thought.

But the robots appeared to think.

And some forms of organic life didn't feel emotion. Plants, for one.
The oviparous man-like bowmen of Venus, who had emerged from the
Great Swamp and which a few crackpot visionaries were hailing as homo
superior, for another.

Only the ability to grow and reproduce itself seemed inherently
organic. The act of conception both in a biologic and mental sense was
the birthright of the organism.

With an increase of the uneasiness he had felt since the discovery of
the robots' defection, he returned to his notes.

"... robots showing aversion to water, oxygen, corrosive acids; believe
to be caused by dread and/or attendant pain of oxidation ... have been
forced to release air in mine and laboratory and discontinue atmosphere
units to induce robots to return to work. Humidity of atmosphere being
especially distasteful to them ... treated R-3 for mild acid corrosion
of right pedal digit. Complained of itching sensation...."

He frowned. How in the hell could a hunk of metal experience an itching
sensation? From what source could it have plucked the mental pattern?
He came to the end of his notes, wrote: "All work at stand still.
Robots have disappeared."

He returned the book to his pocket, elevated his feet on another chair,
closed his eyes.

He was still in that position when Sofi streamed out of her quarters
with a towel draped about herself.

"Resting the old brain?" she inquired brightly.

Hen opened his eyes, said in a pained voice, "I'm thinking," and closed
them again.

"Which end do you use?"

Hen allowed his feet to clomp to the floor, sat up. He said grimly,
"The robots have run off."

Sofi's blue eyes widened. "Wait a minute," she said breathlessly and
flashed from the room.

Hen kept his eyes studiously on the deck.

The sprawling sun-drenched hives of Terra, he was beginning to realize,
insured an impersonal attitude by the multitude of their citizenry.
That same impersonalness was disconcertingly hard to maintain when a
man and a girl were cooped together on an uninhabited asteroid. The
pre-plastic emotions were only too apt to assert themselves.

It distracted him when he felt he needed his full powers of
concentration.

Sofi returned in belted coveralls. She took a seat, asking him, "What
does it mean?"

"The disappearance of the robots? I don't know. I didn't think they
were sufficiently integrated yet to mutiny."

"But what can they do?"

He frowned. "I don't want to sound like an alarmist, but I've pointed
out before how suited the asteroids are to them. If once they
learned how to duplicate themselves, there'd be no end to them. They
have everything here they need to get a fundamental grasp of our
science--even to a rocket ship. They could spread through the asteroid
belt like a plague."

Sofi bit her lip. Her eyes were opened wide and brilliant. Her cheeks
were flushed. She didn't interrupt.

Hen said, "Look what it would mean. An alien, intelligent, almost
indestructible race of monsters saddling the planetary system!"

He drove his right fist into his left palm. "A control! That's what we
have to discover! A control!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hen had no idea what he ate that night at supper. He said suddenly over
coffee and cigarettes, "Ceres is approaching an inferior conjunction.
If those robots haven't appeared by morning, I'm going to radio the
station there for help. Then I'm going to scour every inch of this
diminutive world."

"That shouldn't be too difficult for you," Sofi remarked maliciously.
"Of course, there's only about two thousand-five hundred square
kilometers to cover."

Hen looked disgruntled.

"Maybe they've jumped off," suggested Sofi with a giggle.

He made a remark under his breath.

"Why, Henry! What an idea! You're worrying yourself into a nervous
breakdown. Relax. I'll tell you what: we'll play some checkers."

"Checkers!" he snorted. He had played checkers every night since he had
been on the asteroid and he didn't even like the game. Besides, the
girl always beat him.

Undeterred by his lack of enthusiasm, Sofi began to clear away the
dishes and get out the men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hen sat back with a pained expression. It was black outside the plastic
hemisphere. Only the vivid stars relieved the absence of light.
Jupiter, by far the brightest, was visible as a small disc. The lights
were still on in mine and lab, but nothing stirred in the two igloos.

"It's your move," said Sofi.

She was seated directly across from him, knees touching his. Her
coveralls were open at the neck, and he could see the white pillar of
her throat, the swell of her small, high, virginal breasts. He was
conscious of his pulse ticking away in his throat, and grew furious
with himself. He couldn't concentrate on the game; he couldn't
concentrate on the much more serious problem of the robots.

The girl, he felt sure, was aware of her effect on him and used it
deliberately to confuse him. He said grumpily, "I can't beat both of
you."

"Both of me?"

"Yeah. You and your body."

"Why, what a thought, Hen!" She was obviously trying to hold back
laughter. "But I thought you were superior to that sort of thing."

He jumped up from the table, turned his back to the girl staring off
through the plastic walls. Immediately all thoughts of Sofi vanished.

"They're back!"

"What?"

"The robots. They've come back. They're in the laboratory. Look."

She came around the table, brushing against him, stared out at the
lighted igloo. The heavy man-like machines were moving about inside the
laboratory. Hen started for his quarters.

"Where are you going?" Sofi cried sharply.

"Get my oxygen suit."

"Wait. Don't be foolhardy. How do you know what they're up to? Talk to
them first."

Hen hesitated. "All right." He went out onto the sun deck instead,
snapped on the communicator.

"R-7," he called. "R-7."

"_Here_," came the robot's voice through the audio. "_Is that you,
father?_"

"Father?" Hen ejaculated. He heard Sofi giggle. "Where did you get that
idea?"

"_Didn't you make us, father?_"

"Yes," he admitted. Sofi was laughing out loud. "But you didn't think
of that yourself."

"_The girl told us, father_," said the robot.

Hen ground his teeth. That, of course, was Sofi's idea of a joke.
"Where have you been?" he asked.

"_Prospecting._"

"Prospecting for what?"

"_Radium, father._"

Sofi said, "Ask them if they found anything!" Her voice was eager.

Hen narrowed his black eyes, ignored her. He said to R-7 over the
transmitter, "Go back to work at once."

"_But you don't work, father._"

Hen felt a surge of uncertainty. The robots were too delicately
receptive to expect to keep them in ignorance. Their perceptions were
infinitely more sensitive than man's. Even on this asteroid there
were too many factors involved to regulate their environment. He had
tried to implant science without revealing the greater implication
of science. But language was too faulty a tool. There was the girl,
too--headstrong, excitable, hyper-thyroid. It was amazing how
faithfully the robots tended to reflect her emotional instability.

How much of the robots' erraticness originated in Sofi's inexact
thinking?

He said, "Everything has to work."

"_Why?_"

"Man either produces the needs of his body or he dies," he explained
with growing irritability. The conversation was progressing further and
further out of hand. "In your case, it's fuel and repairs. Without them
you would terminate."

"_But we have those here, father. Why should we work for you or the
girl?_"

That was it--the ultimate question which he had foreseen and which
he could neither avoid nor answer. It was impossible to explain the
complicated social system in which man, the disinherited, exchanged
his labor for a small percentage of the articles he produced. But the
robots were self sufficient.

He said with growing desperation, "Either you return at once to work,
or I'll terminate you."

"_How, father?_"

How indeed? Hen fumed inwardly, said with sudden inspiration, "We'll
radio for help. There are machines capable of blasting the lot of you
into your component atoms."

"_But the radio station is here in the laboratory_," R-7 pointed out.
There was a faint hesitation, then the robot added, "_We will terminate
you instead._" The instrument clicked off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hen gulped, realized in dismay that it hadn't occurred to the robots to
destroy them until he had planted it in their minds.

"You are the bright lad," drawled Sofi. "What do you propose
now--Brain?"

He turned his black eyes on her, regarded her without seeing her. His
glance strayed beyond the girl to the lab.

"What the devil are they doing now?" he cried suddenly.

Sofi spun around. Hen leaped past her to press his nose against the
clear plastic walls of their igloo. The robots, he saw, had one of
their number clamped on the work bench and were dismantling him.

"Damnation!" he said. "They must be trying to duplicate themselves. You
and your silly jokes about fathers."

"Me?"

"What do you think gave them the idea of reproduction? Their thinking
never rises above the level of deductive reasoning. They had to derive
the idea from an outside source."

"But--but can they do it?"

"Of course they can! It's an intricate job, but they only have to
copy themselves. The laboratory and machine shop is complete. They've
amassed a staggering knowledge of science."

"But why?" protested Sofi.

Hen shook his head. "It's beyond me. They should adjust readily to
whatever line of work they're applied to. They shouldn't evince
ambition. Ambition, by its nature, should be impossible to a machine.
But that's not the only organic trait they've been developing. It's
what Robots Incorporated was afraid might happen."

He snapped his fingers suddenly.

"The freighter! If we can sneak aboard the freighter, we can get to
Ceres and bring back an atom gun. If they're developing emotions we may
be able to overawe them. If not...." He hesitated, his mind drawing
back from framing the thought. The truth was that the robots were like
children, precocious children. He set his mouth grimly.

"If they don't respond to fear, we can destroy them."

Sofi looked across the darkened interval into the lighted lab where the
robots were busy dissecting their fellow and shivered.

"Industrious little monsters!"

Hen said, "Get your oxygen suit."

"Now? You mean we're going to make a dash for the space ship now?"

"Of course now! We've got to clear out of here before they carry out
their threat to terminate us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no light outside the igloo. House and lab and mine stood
out like three jeweled domes, reflecting their rays onto the ragged
surface, glinting unexpectedly from upthrust peaks in the distance.
Hen and Sofi crouched against the outside of the housing unit, staring
across the patchwork of black shadow and light at the lab.

"Don't talk," he cautioned Sofi over the radiophones built into their
helmets. "The robots' auditory apparatus is sensitive to radio waves.
They may tune in on us."

"What the hell did you try to do? Make them invincible?"

He said, "We tried to build them with controls, but--don't you
see?--those were weaknesses, flaws! The machine remained dead. The
first law of life is self preservation. We had to make the machine
self-regulating, independent, to produce awareness. Now shut up! Don't
ask me any more questions."

He led off into the darkness away from the lab, away from the mine and
space ship It was too risky to attempt passing the lab. The light was
apt to reflect from their suits, discover their presence to the robots
inside. But by describing a circle he could avoid the lighted areas and
come up behind the dilapidated tramp freighter.

He glanced upward at the stars, impressing their position on his mind.
The constellations were little altered. He found Polaris in the tail of
the little dipper. It was not the axis star as it was on Earth, but it
served to fix his sense of direction in the impenetrable blackness.

They tripped and stubbed their toes, stumbled into shallow fissures,
climbed sharp-edged crests. Sofi, forgetting the radiophone, muttered
several well-chosen expletives to herself. They would have done credit
to a spaceman. Hen was so shocked, he forgot to reprimand her.

In a few minutes the lights of the igloos reappeared to guide them,
the vast black bulk of the tramp freighter screening part of the
mining unit. They crept up to the ship, and hugging its shadow, moved
noiselessly towards the port. Light from the reduction plant picked
them out brightly as they came around the stern.

Hen's stomach contracted. There was a sudden bitter taste in his mouth.
He halted so abruptly that Sofi bumped against his shoulder.

The port was open. The gleaming functional mechanism that was R-3 stood
complacently in the entrance.

The space ship was being guarded.

       *       *       *       *       *

The robot caught sight of the humans at the same moment. His reaction,
although mechanical, was almost as instantaneous as their instinctive
one.

He moved to block the entrance, sent out a call for help.

Hen, guessing his intention, tuned his helmet receiver to the robot's
wave length. R-3's mechanical voice rang suddenly inside his helmet.

"... _attacking the space ship! Aid! Aid! Father attacking the space
ship! Aid!_"

Hen switched back to the girl's wave length. "Run," he commanded
tersely. "He's calling for help. He'll have the lot of them down on our
heads."

Suiting action to words, he took to his heels, plunging for the housing
unit.

"Lock ourselves in!" he grunted.

"_But the ship!_" Sofi wailed over her radiophone.

"Might as well try to get past a tank as R-3," he panted. He saw four
of the robots break from the laboratory, turn to intercept them.
"Faster," he cried. "If we don't get back to the igloo we're done for!
These suits haven't but a seven hours oxygen supply!"

[Illustration: _"Faster," he cried. "If we don't get back to the igloo
we're done for!"_]

He swung sharply to the right, traveling in sixty-foot leaps like an
ungainly grasshopper, to jump completely over the head of the closest
robot.

He over-estimated the last jump, smashed into the tough plastic wall
of the igloo. He slithered to the ground, half dazed, as Sofi whipped
inside, started to close the lock. Hen got his foot in the crack just
in time.

"What the hell are you trying to do?" he roared wrathfully. "Lock me
out?"

He yanked the door open, flung himself into the compartment. He got it
barred just as the robots reached the igloo.

They milled around outside a moment, then trooped back to the
laboratory, leaving one of their number, R-6, on guard.

"_We're prisoners!_" Sofi breathed through the radiophone.

Hen decided it was childish not to speak. He growled, "Yes," in a voice
which he hoped conveyed the depth of contempt, but Sofi didn't seem to
notice it. Hell, she was probably too frightened to even realize that
she had tried to lock him out.

As soon as the pressure reached normal, they left the lock, trooped
dejectedly up the incline to the sun deck, and pulled off their oxygen
suits.

"Keep them handy," said Hen ominously when Sofi started to put them
away. "We'd better get extra oxygen containers, too."

The girl bit her lip. Her cheeks were flushed, her large blue eyes
starry with fright. "Then--then you think they'll try to break in here?"

"Of course they will! We're a menace to their continued existence. If
we could just get hold of an atom gun, though. R-3 sounded frightened!"

"Frightened?" asked Sofi. She was still breathing heavily, but she had
begun to quiet down. "Now who's reading emotion into the robots?"

He said with a puzzled expression, "It wasn't so much the nuance as
his choice of words. 'Father is attacking the space ship! Aid! Aid!'
He gave every appearance of being as frightened as we were. It's
impossible, but they seem to be developing emotions!"

Sofi dropped weakly in a chair, clasped her arms around her knees. "Why
should it be impossible?"

"You sound like R-7." He began pacing the sun deck. "Emotion results
from glandular activity. The robots don't have glands."

"They've got their counterparts."

"Maybe," he admitted doubtfully. "You're referring to the metabolism
that breaks down the rawstuffs and converts it into fuel,
lubrication--that sort of chemical change?"

She nodded.

"I don't know. Anyway, it's worth a try. If they really experience
fear, we might be able to bluff them."

"What are you going to do?" she asked breathlessly.

He said, "Remind them that every three Terran months a supply ship puts
in here. And if we're harmed they'll be destroyed."

"But what about the space ship? Couldn't they escape to another
asteroid? They'd never be located in the belt."

"It shouldn't occur to them," returned Hen thoughtfully. "Not unless
the idea reached them from us."

He went to the radio contact, switched it on. "R-7," he called. "R-7."

"_Here, father_," the voice of the robot issued from the audio.

He said, "R-7, I'm giving you one last chance. Return to work at once
or all of you will be terminated."

"_How?_"

He explained tersely about the supply ship, and what would occur if
so much as a hair of their heads was injured. Silence greeted the
ultimatum. For a moment Hen wondered if R-7 had switched himself off.
Then the robot said, "_We are going to load the ship and hide out in
the belt. They'll never be able to locate us._"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hen was too stunned to argue. He nipped off the set, sank into a chair.
"It's inconceivable," he said, "and monstrous! It just isn't possible!"

"I don't see why," protested Sofi. "It didn't take conception to figure
that out. We tried to run away. We set the precedent."

"No, no," he protested. "Not that at all. But the coincidence. We were
afraid that might occur to them. And it did! Even the phrasing was
ours--yours, to be exact."

"You mean telepathy."

"In a sense. The brain gives off minute electrical discharges that vary
with the brain's activity. The robots are sensitive, much more so than
man. It takes a machine to detect the brain discharges in the first
place."

"But then they're aware of every move we could make just as soon as we
are."

"That's just it! They've forestalled us every time." He drove his right
fist against his left palm. "You were afraid R-7 would dismantle the
mining worm. You planted the suggestion in his mind. Then it occurred
to you that he might try to take you apart; so he did. I explained the
danger inherent in a conscious machine. The robots incorporated it into
their thought processes. We were afraid they would block our escape in
the space ship. If we hadn't been afraid we wouldn't have circled. So
they blocked us!"

Sofi's color had heightened. Her eyes looked too large in her
delicately modelled face. "Then we're trapped!"

He nodded, said, "If they escape from the asteroid, they'll be a menace
to the entire human race."

"The larger problem doesn't interest me," she said bitterly. "How long
do we have?"

He shook his head.

"Oh, well," she shrugged, eyes feverishly bright. "Eat, drink and be
merry, because tomorrow we die." She giggled half-hysterically.

Hen's nerves were keyed up to the breaking point. The girl screamed,
and he almost jumped out of his skin.

"Here they come!"

He wheeled around.

Seven of the robots were advancing on their igloo. Only the eighth was
missing, and he lay scattered in parts about the laboratory. They were
hauling the heavy cutting torch with them.

"They're going to cut through the walls with the torch," he ejaculated.
"I was afraid of that! Get on your oxygen suit!"

"What's the use?" Sofi asked despondently. "They'll kill us anyway."

He turned on her angrily, thought, "Damn these unstable hyper-thyroid
types!" An expression of dawning comprehension broke across his long,
narrow face. The thyroid was the great energizer, raising the energy
level of the brain. And Sofi was hyper-thyroid.

Outside, the robots began setting up the apparatus. A knife of blue
flame licked from the muzzle, spattered against the tough plastic.

But Hen was staring at the girl, a queer expression in his black eyes.

"Do something!" she cried, springing to her feet. "Do something!"

The lank physicist swallowed. He took a deep breath. "You asked for
it," he breathed, "but, boy, I'm going to feel silly if I'm wrong!"

Then he hit the girl square on the point of her chin with all the bone
and gristle of his six-foot frame behind the blow.

Sofi's head snapped back. She collapsed limply in his arms.

Hen laid her out on the floor, leaped for the communicator, and
flipped it on.

The robots were still training the torch on the wall of the igloo, but
there was an aimlessness about their movements as if their purpose was
gone.

"R-7!" he called. "R-7!"

"_Here, father._"

"Shut off the torch!"

There was a faint hesitation during which Hen could feel the sweat
prickle his forehead. Then, "_Yes, father_," came the robots unstressed
syllables. The blue flame disappeared.

"Go back to work!" He hastily detailed each robot to its operation.

"_Yes, father._"

The robots turned, disappeared in the direction of the mine.

He had done it! He blew out his breath, dropped limply in a chair.
He really ought to look after Sofi, but he'd have to wait until the
strength flowed back in his legs.

Soft was really was out cold. "Wake up," said Hen, "you're not dead."
He sprinkled more water over the girl's face.

Her eyelids fluttered. She gazed up at him blankly, then stark terror
gleamed from her eyes. "The robots!"

"No more of that!" He shook her roughly. "They're machines. They don't
have consciousness; only the semblance of consciousness!"

Sofi sat up, asking, "What--?" in a bewildered voice.

"They don't think! They aren't conscious! They're like a mirror; they
reflect what we expect them to do."

"Don't try to tell me that!" cried the girl springing to her feet.
"Hell, haven't I seen them thinking? Where are they?"

"They've gone back to work."

"What?" said Sofi. She looked puzzled, passed her hand over her face.

"Don't you see?" Hen broke out jubilantly. "They're sensitive,
inordinately sensitive, so sensitive that they even respond to our
thoughts. From beginning to end they've done exactly what we--you
expected them to do."

"Me?"

He came to a halt, said, "The fact is, you're a rebel, Sofi. If you
weren't, do you think you'd be trying to develop independently a mine
on an uninhabitable asteroid? Don't you see? You expected the robots
to revolt because you couldn't imagine a rational creature willing
to submit to a twenty-four hour work day from which he stood to gain
nothing!"

"And I'm responsible for--everything?"

He nodded vigorously. "The robots respond to both of our thought
patterns, of course, but primarily to yours. You're hyper-thyroid.
The thyroid raises the energy level of the brain. They have done
principally what you've expected them to do."

Sofi was recovering amazingly from her fright. She said, "If that isn't
just like a man. Blame it on the woman. Even Adam--"

"Nonsense," Hen interrupted. "The robots haven't acted independently
once. Not even to finish dismantling that robot in the lab. They went
prospecting when you thought how silly it was for them to work for you
when they could find a mine of their own.

"They wandered back aimlessly after they lost contact. But by that time
I had inadvertently planted the thought in your mind that they were in
revolt and would attempt to duplicate themselves.

"They drew on us both, but the dominating influence was yours."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sofi massaged her sore jaw, raised her eyebrows. "It's too bad only
machines respond so cooperatively," she said with a twinkle in her blue
eyes.

A grim expression descended over Hen's features. He regarded Sofi
pensively. "I'm going to recommend that you be returned to Earth during
any further experiments. You're too upsetting an influence--"

"On the robots, of course," Sofi interrupted with a chuckle. "You're
much too well-integrated to be swayed by a mere woman--even a
hyper-thyroid woman."

"There's a limit to _my_ endurance," said Hen in a grim voice.

Sofi looked startled, but she couldn't resist adding, "Why Henry, I
didn't guess you'd been exercising such magnificent self-control!"

She took a sudden backward step as he advanced ominously. "Henry! Now,
Henry!"

With a shriek, she turned and fled, Henry Ohm, distinguished physicist,
hard on her heels.





End of Project Gutenberg's Love Among the Robots, by Emmett McDowell

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LOVE AMONG THE ROBOTS ***

***** This file should be named 63821.txt or 63821.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/2/63821/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
