The Project Gutenberg EBook of Monster, by William Morrison

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Monster

Author: William Morrison

Release Date: December 5, 2020 [EBook #63965]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MONSTER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                                MONSTER

                          by WILLIAM MORRISON

               _Colonizing Mars was hell, because of one
               thing--large, hungry critters. They flew,
              crawled, snarled, howled, burrowed up under
             the floors, chewed at doors and windows. And
           then, to make things worse, came the Monster...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories July 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


There was a faint scratching at the door, so faint that Alice Kidd,
who had been listening fearfully for precisely that sound, was at first
not certain that she heard it. But, as she came close to the doorway,
it was no longer possible to doubt, and a chill went through her at
the thought of the creature panting eagerly on the other side. Now she
could hear it whine, and, despite her knowledge that the gesture was
an idle one, she could not help once more feeling the bolt behind the
door. Then she made sure that the shutters too were securely barred,
although these were usually in less danger; most of the animals could
not apply pressure very far above the ground.

Small was staring at her, not particularly frightened, but very much
interested. Her face, she thought, must be pale through the radiation
tan. Ordinarily, there was nothing timid or fragile about her, or she
would never have accompanied her husband to Mars; but all the same,
she felt weak and helpless before the danger that threatened. And she
shuddered as her five-year-old son asked, "Can it get in, Mommy?"

"I hope not, darling. Come, let's go into the other room and bolt the
connecting door. And then I'll call up Daddy."

"Does it want to eat us, Mommy?"

Alice shuddered again. "Don't talk about it," she said, and carried him
quickly into the next room. When the door was bolted, she pressed the
contact button, asked for Mr. Kidd, and almost at once was speaking to
Anthony.

He listened quietly, his dark face in the visor as grave as if he were
concerned with some problem of engineering, and then said in a tone
of reassurance, "Don't worry, it can't get in. Not under a couple of
hours, anyway. And even if it does, you have that gun."

"That explosive thing?"

"It'll do, if you keep your nerve. But I don't think you'll have to put
it to the test. I'm coming home now, anyway, and I'll take care of our
friend. Have any idea what it is?"

"I haven't seen it. It just whines a little, and keeps scratching, very
quietly."

"Probably a badgerine. Hope it doesn't try to tunnel under the floor.
All right, sugar, keep your shirt on, and the Mars Marines will be
there to the rescue."

"Take care of yourself."

"And how. Think I want you to be left with all that insurance money and
fall victim to some fortune-hunter who sees nothing in you but your
beautiful bank account?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He hung up, and Alice waited, trembling. In the room where she was,
she could no longer hear the straining animal, but she knew that it
hadn't gone away. She tried to get interested in some of Small's
childish treasures. The blocks he had long outgrown, and they kept the
things only because there was no one to give them to, and it seemed
silly to throw anything away here. Besides, Alice had the idea that
her son might have a brother or a sister some day soon, if they ever
decided it was possible to raise a baby here, and toys were difficult
to import. As for Small's magic hypno-ray ring, his imitation teleport
bracelet, and his genuine imitation home teleset and similar objects,
all obtained either by sending away one quarter credit in stamps
plus a cereal box-top or by selling a special perfumed soap to his
neighbors--which in this case meant his parents--she had always found
it difficult to arouse any interest in them. She had, in fact, been
slightly annoyed at Anthony's indulgence of his son's desire to obtain
them. And it was impossible to simulate interest now, with that animal
at the door.

And then, suddenly, the animal wasn't there any longer. She didn't hear
any noise from Anthony's gun. It wasn't that kind. She felt simply
the shock of contact as the missile went through the creature's body
and shook the house. Then came a long, despairing chorus of yells,
and after that, for a moment, silence. She withdrew the bolt of the
connecting door, and then the buzzer sounded.

When Anthony came in, she fell into his arms. Small, however, wasn't
having any emotional excitement. He said, "What was it, Daddy? Was it
really a badgerine?"

"Not this time, son. Just an octerocap."

"As if the other wasn't bad enough," said Alice faintly. The octerocap
was an eight-headed wolf, and was as likely to kill newcomers by
the fright its appearance induced as much as by its numerous teeth.
"Anthony, you must simply get me another gun like yours."

"You can take mine if you really feel unsafe."

"You know I wouldn't take it. You need yours to get home with. And
there isn't so much danger as long as you're within calling range. But
in case of emergency--"

He nodded. "Do you think I don't realize that? I've been cabling that
idiot, Tapling, for another gun ever since we got here. Not a chance."

"But why? Does he think that the government sends engineers to Mars for
the purpose of having them killed and eaten by animals?"

"Tapling's is not to reason why, it's but to do according to
regulations and let others die. He says that Regulation L34XC3 of
Code 3 forbids it."

"The stupid fool!"

"Call him by his right name. That Idiot Tapling, or T. I. Tapling, as
we usually denote him at the office."

"Is he the same way to them?"

"And how! Operations have been dragging along at half of capacity
because he says we haven't filled out the necessary forms for those
spare parts we need. And we can't fill them out, because the forms have
to be countersigned by the vice-president in charge of Operation M54,
and that gentleman is vacationing somewhere in space with a new bride,
and can't be located. So you see, darling, you're cursing him in good
company."

Even at that, as Anthony might have pointed out, he was suppressing
a good part of what might have been said of Mr. Tapling. At the
mines where Anthony and his fellow engineers worked, everything was
completely automatic, and the dozen men were needed only for checking
and repairs. It was T. I. Tapling who had done his best to ruin their
lives.

       *       *       *       *       *

The houses he had ordered built for them were not too bad. To be
reasonably invulnerable to the drill-toothed animals who abounded on
these wastes, the walls would have had to be about a dozen feet thick;
and Tapling had had no grounds for suspecting that fact, which had not
been in any of the reports he had read. But it was unquestionably his
fault that the houses were so widely scattered. Dealing with a planet
where the sunlight was weak and ultra-violet was obtained chiefly from
artificial radiation, a planet where the air was so cold that no one
went outdoors unless he had to, T. I. Tapling had been worried about
living space and had generously allotted to each engineer and his
family territory uninhabited for a couple of miles in every direction.
Possibly he expected them to grow vegetables next to their houses.
Apparently he had no suspicion that he was making things as easy as
possible for the predatory animals.

And of all locations, Anthony and Alice had the worst. Their house was
most isolated, was the most difficult to get to from the office, and
was in the part of the country most liable to attack. It was little
wonder that Alice said, as she had said so often before, "But we _must_
do something. Do you think we could have an electric barrier set up?"

"We could not. That's against regulation something or other too. Might
kill friendly animals."

"But there isn't a single animal that's friendly!"

"Tell that to regulations and their guardian, Mr. Tapling."

Small looked up and said, "Mommy, we ought to get a dog."

Anthony nodded. "Our brilliant son is correct. Just as correct as he
was when he first suggested it two months ago."

"But, Anthony, you know how much food costs here. He'd eat us out of--"

"Dogs eat animals," announced Small. "Space Dragoneer says so in his
television program."

"Small's right," agreed Anthony. "I'll bet an octerocap has eight
different kinds of vitamins, one for each head. We ought to try eating
one ourselves and save money."

"Ugh!"

"I want to eat an octerocap," said Small. "He wants to eat me, so I
don't see why I shouldn't eat him."

"Never heard more perfect logic in my life," observed Anthony with
pride. "That's my boy. However, let's put the lesson in logic aside
for a moment, and repair the damage the thing caused. Get the plastic
metal, Alice."

But Small was not to be so easily sidetracked. When the repairs to the
door had been completed, he said, as if continuing a conversation that
had been going on all the time, "Are we getting the dog soon, Daddy?"

"I think we are, Small. Then, for a change, I think your Mommy will
feel safe in the house."

"I'll call him, 'Rover'," decided Small.

"'Rover' let it be. He'll be unique--the only dog on Mars with that
name. In fact, the only dog on Mars."

"I'm unique too, Daddy. I'm the only boy on Mars called 'Small'."

"It's not your real name, you know."

"It is so," asserted Small. "'Anthony, Jr.' is just a nickname. When I
start going to television school, I'm going to tell the teacher that my
name is Small Kidd."

Alice had been thinking. She said, "Anthony, dear, instead of writing
for a dog, why don't you try again to get one of those new guns? I'm
sure that if you did fill out a form--"

"I've filled out thousands. But don't worry, dear, I'll write T. I.
Tapling again. Just don't expect too much, though."

Alice tried to pretend that she didn't, but in her heart she felt a
pang of disappointment when Tapling wrote back that additional guns
were forbidden not only by Regulation L34XC3 of Code 3, but by virtue
of certain other regulations as well. He was pleased, however, to reply
favorably to Mr. Kidd's other request, and enclosed forthwith a copy of
a catalogue published by the Central Terrestrial Dog Breeding Station.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alice's first thought was that for once Mr. Tapling had done something
right, and without wrapping his action up in red tape. Alice's second
thought was, "That Idiot Tapling!"--for the catalogue, it turned out,
was three hundred years old. It had been published some time before
the first Mars expedition had taken off, and she could only wonder
from what antique waste-paper pile the bureaucratic T. I. Tapling's
bureaucratic subordinates had dug it up.

It was, nonetheless, fascinating reading, and Small was even more
fascinated by the pictures it contained. Moreover, with a catalogue
actually in the house, he seemed to regard her as definitely committed
to get Rover. He wavered in his favorites for that title between Great
Danes and Saint Bernards, and Alice, as she contemplated the size of
the two breeds, could only think of the enormous quantities of food
they would consume, and shudder in dismay.

She put up one final feeble struggle that same night, when Anthony
came home, and Small showed him the wonders in the new book. "Look,
Daddy, this one looks like a sheep!"

"It's a Bedlington Terrier."

"Can we eat it?"

"No. It may look like a sheep, but it eats like a dog. What kind do you
want?"

"He wants a big one," said Alice. "Great Dane or St. Bernard."

"How about an Irish Wolfhound?"

"Is that a big one, Daddy?"

"Tallest in the book."

"Maybe we should choose that," said Alice tentatively. "That is," she
corrected herself, "if we choose any at all. And I rather doubt whether
we should."

"It's up to you."

"Think of the cost of feeding a big dog!"

"But I told you before, it will probably feed on the animals it kills."

"Suppose it doesn't kill any?"

"It had better," said Anthony. "That's why I sent for the catalogue.
We'll have to take a look at the qualities of the different breeds,
and not depend entirely on Small's otherwise excellent criterion of
size. We want a dog that's kind and affectionate with a child; tough,
adaptable, a good hunter; and easy to care for. There are several
that seem to fit the bill, but of course it's hard to be sure from a
catalogue alone. And a lot depends on the individual dog, too. Why not
tell the Dog Breeding Station what we want, and leave the final choice
up to them?"

"But we're not sure--"

It was at that moment that for the first time there came a scratching
not at the door, but at the shutter.

Alice looked at her husband and her child, and then hugged the latter
closely. "Thank God you're home," she told Anthony.

The shutters were not as resistant as the doors, and they both knew it.
But for the moment, the creature outside seemed to have trouble making
up its mind. The scratching stopped, and then began again, at another
shutter.

"As long as it isn't at the door, I have a chance to slip out before it
can slip in--I hope," said Anthony. He picked up his gun. "Get Small
behind the other door, and bar it."

"Don't be silly. I'll put Small there, but I'm staying here. I'll keep
the explosive gun in readiness, just in case."

Anthony nodded, and said, "All right, then. Here I go."

He opened the door and stepped out. At the faint sound the door made,
the scratching at the shutter stopped. A second later, something seemed
to flash through the air and throw itself at Anthony's face. Anthony,
startled, didn't pull the trigger. Instead, he swung the gun upward and
caught the creature in the middle, throwing it above the roof. As it
rose high, he aimed, giving it a wide beam. The creature split in two
and the pieces fell to the ground, where they wriggled spasmodically.

[Illustration: _As it rose high, he aimed, giving it a wide beam...._]

       *       *       *       *       *

The thing had possessed a long snake's head and neck on a small
pseudo-mammalian body. Anthony's shot had cut it at the base of the
neck, and as the eyes glared at him, he fired into the head. But even
with the head shattered, the neck continued to twitch.

Alice shuddered. "How did it fly?"

"Get a little closer, and you'll see for yourself."

She managed to overcome her repulsion and approached close, still
holding her own gun in readiness. And then, as Anthony had said, she
saw for herself. All along the neck were small pairs of wings, and
on the body two pairs of large ones. They were folded now, but their
nature was clearly visible. As if to leave her in no doubt whatever,
during one of the twitchings a pair on the body shuddered open, and
revealed a five-foot wingspread before it closed again.

"What is it?" she asked.

"Let's get into the house before we talk," replied Anthony, and they
withdrew quickly and were about to bolt the door once more.

At that moment, Alice looked around and screamed. "Small!"

Anthony opened the door again, to find that Small had slipped out and
was poking with interest in his mind and a stick in his hand at the
body-half of the shattered animal. Anthony grabbed him and carried him
in. When they had bolted the door again, Alice fell into a chair. "That
child gives me heart-failure a dozen times a day."

"That's what kids are for," said Anthony. "About that thing I
killed--I've heard of them, but I've never seen one before. I hope they
don't turn out to be common around here."

"If one finally found its way to us, others will, sooner or later."

"I'm afraid so," he sighed. "They're known as 'snaffles'--flying
snakes. It may make you feel better to learn that they're not
poisonous."

"It doesn't make me feel better in the least. They're horrible anyway."

"Well, how about getting a dog?"

"Send away for one--at once. Any kind, so long as it will kill these
terrible things."

They sent away, and then they waited. A week later, Anthony killed
a badgerine--a vicious, burrowing animal that had the habit of
slaughtering for the pure joy of killing. The same day, a report came
from T. I. Tapling to the effect that the Central Terrestrial Dog
Breeding Station had reported an order for one of their animals, and
that, by virtue of the fact that all orders for Government personnel
on Government projects must be routed through Government channels, the
order had been turned over to Mr. Tapling. However, as Mr. Tapling was
strongly opposed to red tape--so said Mr. Tapling, black on white--he
would not return a new blank order form to Mr. Anthony Kidd, but would
save time, according to the procedure permitted by Regulation MN37VX25,
Code 2, and fill out the necessary form himself.

"Why, the guy's human," said Anthony in surprise.

"Maybe he had a dog himself once," suggested Alice.

"Whatever it is, it shouldn't be long now."

But Mr. Tapling, as an expediter, was not quite as efficient as when
he played the role of obstructor. Another week passed, during which
Anthony killed another octerocap and two snaffles, incurring a slight
wound from one of the latter. The wound showed signs, at first, of
festering badly, and special biostatic treatment was needed to keep
it from getting worse. The week after that, Anthony shot a new animal
which he had never even heard described before. It seemed a baggy
formless mass, with a tiny, almost invisible head. He tossed it aside,
and the other animals, enticed by the meal, came to eat it and then
prowl, audibly drooling, around the house. He shot several more, and
still no dog.

He spent part of his hard-earned salary for a special cable to Mr.
Tapling, and that gentleman, in his hatred of red tape, referred the
message to a subordinate, who passed it on for action to a subordinate
of his own. Anthony never heard of the cable again.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the next week he killed no less than five different animals.
Alice herself killed a snaffle which tried to get into the house
through an imperfectly barred window. The explosive gun was a great
success, blowing head and most of the neck to bits with one shot, and
knocking Alice to the floor at the same time by means of the recoil.
She was bruised for days, and from that moment she lived in almost as
great terror of the gun itself as of the animals outside.

In the month that followed, Anthony sent a cable each week, and
received no reply to any of them. The number of animals that prowled
around the house increased almost daily. There came the day when Alice
called up the mine in panic.

"Anthony, there are _three_ of them outside the house, all at once. One
at the door, two at different shutters. Rush home! And bring help!"

"Okay," said Anthony, and rushed.

This time he was accompanied by one of his fellow engineers, who was
carrying a surprise for Alice. The first surprise, however, was the one
that Anthony himself received. Tunneling under the concrete foundation
of the house was a badgerine whose presence Alice had not even
suspected. But Anthony had no time to tackle it, for the other animals
were quickly upon him. The first to arrive were the snaffles, and both
Anthony and the engineer with him aimed and shot in a hurry. Anthony's
target fell apart as scheduled. The engineer's kept on coming, but
fortunately overshot its mark, for its intended victim had fallen to
the ground.

Anthony swung his gun around, knocked the snaffle into the air, and
fired right into the middle of an octerocap rushing at him. It fell to
the ground, eight heads howling, and then managed to lift itself and
spring. But by this time the engineer was on his feet again, and while
he broke its back with a blow of his own gun, Anthony disposed of the
remaining snaffle.

It was only then that they heard the shriek from inside. The badgerine
was cutting through the concrete and getting into the house. Anthony
rushed to the door. It was bolted; and Alice, terrified as she watched
the floor give way, either didn't hear his yells or was unable to get
to him. Anthony wasted no time in pounding at the closed door. He
rushed to the hole the badgerine had dug and crawled down after it.

The hole was dark, but fortunately fairly wide, as the badgerine was
a large animal. Anthony was able to pull himself along at a fair rate
of speed. While he was still a dozen feet from the concrete, he heard
the explosive gun go off. He almost felt the shock that must have hit
Alice, and tried to crawl faster, but only scraped his face against
the rock. Actually, it was only a few seconds before he reached the
concrete and dragged himself through, but it seemed like hours.

Alice had turned on the brightest lights, and, thoroughly shaken by the
recoil, was now trying to aim with an unsteady gun at the badgerine,
which had pulled itself together as if gathering strength to spring at
her. The explosion had torn a hole in its side, and blood was staining
the floor--but it wasn't the wound that had saved Alice from its first
attempt to pounce upon her. It was the bright light, which dazzled the
eyes so well adjusted to the black of the tunnel. It had leaped by odor
and missed, and Alice had been cool enough to hold her fire until she
could aim. But this time the animal would not miss.

It sprang, in fact, just as Anthony dragged his own gun to aiming
position, and its teeth were about to close on her throat when his
blast drilled it through the primary heart. Even as it fell, it knocked
her down.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anthony kicked the animal aside and picked up his wife, who had
fainted. Outside, the man who had accompanied him was pounding on the
door. From behind the bolted door of the inner room, Small was wailing.

Anthony deposited his wife gently on a sofa, and let his friend in. The
man said bitterly, "That Idiot Tapling."

"Never mind Tapling. Let me have your flask."

But Alice didn't need the whisky to revive. She opened her eyes just
as Anthony lifted her again, and then, as her gaze met his own, she
sighed. "What a wonderful man I married. Always just in time."

"That Idiot Tapling," growled the newcomer.

Alice looked at him questioningly, and Anthony said, "This is Carl
Dowley. From the mines. He came along when I told him that I might need
help. And look at what he has."

"A new gun!" exclaimed Alice.

"That's what it looks like," said Dowley. "From surplus, courtesy
of Regulation ND7-Z5. And that's exactly what it isn't." He said to
Anthony, "You saw me aim and fire. But you didn't see anything happen.
Because it didn't go off."

"Let me take a look at it." Anthony opened it up, and stared. "No
loader, no radiation shield, no charge chamber--the guts are missing!"

They looked at each other, and all three said, at the same moment,
almost as if they had rehearsed it, "That Idiot Tapling!"

It was only then that Alice heard Small's wailing and opened the inner
door.

They had thought that day was bad enough. The next day topped it.

The hole the badgerine had dug had been filled with quick-setting
concrete and had no further attraction for animal visitors. Late in
the afternoon, however, something came to the door, and Alice tried
to phone the mine. But the line was dead, and she realized that some
animal, probably another badgerine, had cut through the concrete and
metal shield that protected the phone and visor wires. She was not
seriously upset, however--not then. She simply switched to the radio
sender, and tried to contact the mine along her private wave-length. It
was only when she realized that the power was not on that panic really
gripped her.

The creature at the door kept working steadily, as if unaware that a
half hour after its arrival a competitor had arrived at one of the
shutters, and that a pretty race was on to see which would get Alice as
its prey. She stared at her watch and tried to guess when Anthony would
be coming home. Probably, as far as she could estimate, a half hour
after the first creature had reached her. She might stop it with the
explosive gun, and she might not. And then, if another showed up at the
same window or door, while she was still unsteady from the recoil....

Her only hope was that they would come after her one by one, not too
close together. She considered seriously the possibility of opening the
shutter to allow the entrance of the snaffle which she was sure was
tearing at it, getting rid of that, and then closing the shutter again
while she recovered her steadiness. But she knew that the thing might
come at her faster than she could handle it, and decided to leave the
shutter alone.

For another half hour the animals worked away, each intent upon its
own means of arriving at the victim. Then, for the first time, Alice
heard the sound of a struggle between animals outside the house. The
scratching at the shutter stopped, there came a thin shriek, a crash
against the side, and then silence except for the vibration of the
shutter.

The scratching at the door stopped next. This time there came the
howling of octerocap heads, and then a crash high up, as if the
creature had been hurled with great force against the house. The thing
that had hurled it next pounded on the door, and to her horror Alice
saw the door yield at the same time both at the bottom and at the top,
as if it had been hit by both head and foot at once. Never before had
any animal been large enough to accomplish such a feat. This must be a
predator of a new type, huger and stronger than the others.

For the second time in two days, Alice fainted.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was awakened a little later by a great pounding on the door. At
first she thought she would faint again, but the unexpected sound of
Anthony's voice reassured her. He was yelling to her to open up.

She lifted the bolt, and Anthony stepped toward her. As she fell
forward to fling her arms around his neck, however, she caught sight of
something over his shoulder ... she closed her eyes and shrieked.

"Take it easy," said Anthony. "He may look frightening, but he's of a
breed that's been trained to be gentle with humans."

"It's--"

"It's the thing that smashed the snaffle and trampled the octerocap.
It's the dog they sent us."

She drew back, and a monster stepped into the room, its clumsy gait
almost knocking the door off its hinges. It gazed at her with saucer
eyes, and then, as Small came toward it, his own little eyes wide
with a puzzled sort of delight, the dog stretched out a tongue bigger
than Small's head and tried to lick Small's face. The boy fell over
backward, squalling in fright.

"No, Rover!" said Anthony sternly.

The dog hung its head in shame.

"Down, Rover!"

The dog stood motionless, Anthony smacked him on the rear. The dog
squatted down on his haunches, his head somewhere near the ceiling.

"See how gentle he is? He may look like a monster, but he wouldn't lay
a paw or a tooth on a human being. They breed his kind for gentleness."

"But--are you sure it's a dog? How--why didn't you--"

"I tried to call you late this afternoon, when he arrived," said
Anthony reasonably, "but the wire was cut. And your radio wasn't
receiving. So I set out to walk him home. Had him on a leash. Not that
I could hold him if he really tried to pull away, but he won't exert
his full force against a human who has him on a leash."

"Then how _did_ he get away? If he killed the octerocap and the
snaffle, he must have got here before you."

"He did. Fact is, I was careless," confessed Anthony shamefacedly. "I
stopped to light a cigaret, and he tugged the leash out of my hand
before I could get a good grip on it. He headed for this place because
it was the only human-looking habitation in the neighborhood. Good
thing, too. He got here in time to take care of those creatures."

Alice stared at the monster. "Good heavens, how big is he, anyway?"

"Seven feet at the shoulder, and weighs 2000 pounds. No wonder he could
handle those animals, even though he is a pup."

"_A pup!_"

"Four months old. Two months when they shipped him out. It seems that
the catalogue That Idiot Tapling sent us is a little out of date.
In the past few centuries they've bred new kinds of dogs, entirely
different from those they used to have on Earth. They've got them small
enough to fit into a thimble, and big enough--well, as big as this
one will be. Naturally, when we wrote away and asked for a protector
type, one of the biggest they had, we didn't have any idea that they'd
developed this. If Tapling had only sent us a modern catalogue--"

"I like him," announced Small suddenly. "Is his name Rover?"

"Absolutely."

"Will he knock me over again?"

"Of course not. That was just an accident."

"Are we going to keep him?"

Anthony looked at Alice and grinned. "I don't think we have any choice
in the matter. It's a question of life and death."

"But not in the house," said Alice. "There's no room for him in the
house. And he'll be quite safe outside."

"I'm afraid not," said Anthony. "He's strong, but as a pup he's still
delicate. Very susceptible to virus infections."

"That elephant?" exclaimed Alice incredulously. "Afraid of little
things like viruses?"

Anthony nodded. "His kind catch cold very easily. After he grows older,
of course, he'll be different. He'll be able to sleep outside, if you
make him a chest protector. The chest has to stay warm. You used to
knit well, Alice."

"I can't knit a chest protector for an elephant!"

"You're exaggerating. Even full-grown, he probably won't top 4600
pounds. Some elephants come a lot bigger than that."

"I'll sew him a protector out of an old blanket. I won't knit it."

"I guess that will do. Meanwhile, as I said, we'll have to keep him in
the house. And about food--" He coughed delicately. "Later on, he'll
be able to supply himself. Meanwhile, he's still a pup, as I must
keep on reminding you. We'll have to buy special dog food. And vitamin
concentrates. A few gallons a year, no more. He'll be mature at about
two."

Alice groaned. "He probably saved my life, but I can't help it,
Anthony, I can't welcome him like the guest he should be. Either he'll
eat us out of house and home, or he'll crowd us out--"

"I can take him back or give him to someone else," observed Anthony. "I
already have an offer."

"No--I'm afraid we need him too much." She looked at the animal grimly,
and said, "You win, Rover. You're one of the family."

Rover bent his head, and Anthony scratched it. Small said, "Daddy,
could he give me a ride?" and Anthony put the boy on the dog's back,
and watched him parade clumsily around the room, knocking over no more
than two chairs. A moment later, the boy slipped off, beaming.

"I think it'll work out," said Anthony.

As if in answer, Small's eyes seemed to pop out of his head, while
his finger pointed. Alice shrieked, and in her voice there was the
expression of stark tragedy such as Aristotle had never known, of
the ultimate outrage of a malignant and remorseless fate: "_He isn't
housebroken!_"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Monster, by William Morrison

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MONSTER ***

***** This file should be named 63965.txt or 63965.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/6/63965/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
