The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Conquistadors Come, by M. E. Counselman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Conquistadors Come

Author: M. E. Counselman

Release Date: December 7, 2020 [EBook #63982]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CONQUISTADORS COME ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        The Conquistadors Come

                          by M. E. COUNSELMAN

               _The handsome, fair-haired Conquistadors
               were welcomed by the S'zetnurs with open
                arms--the grasping, grotesque arms of a
                   lost race of beauty-worshippers._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories November 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The Conquistadors were tall men, tall and bronzed by many suns, and
splendid as they strode down the gangplank in a seemingly endless
procession. They were fair-haired, with flashing black eyes like
polished onyx, and their straight profiles might have been copied
from the faces of the silver coins that jingled in their pockets.
In the steamy-hot atmosphere of the new-found planet, S'zetnu, they
stripped to the waist almost at once, and their muscles rippled in the
blue-green sunlight....

At the edge of the pallid forest surrounding the clear spot where
the great rocket had landed, many eyes were watching their advent.
Wondering eyes, wistful and excited eyes ... but eyes that peered and
squinted, rheumy with disease and almost blind.

The Conquistadors, after the manner of their ancient ancestors, knelt
down in a ring, hands folded, heads bowed. One of them--the tallest,
the most splendid--stood in the center of the circle and lifted both
arms to the sky. His lips moved, and lovely rolling sounds issued from
them....

The watchers in the forest gasped, looking at one another in silent
wonder. Two centuries ago, their kind had lost the power of speech; and
for a half century their deformed ears had been able to hear only the
loudest of sounds--the screech of a giant beetle stalking them through
the swampland, the crash of thunder, the rumble of a waterfall ... the
sound of this great rocket-ship roaring down upon them out of nowhere.
Now, holding little seashells to their ears to amplify the voice of the
Tall One, they began to jump up and down ecstatically, like children
promised a treat. They nodded. They hugged one another with their short
deformed arms, bumping their foreheads together in the ancient gesture
of happiness and good will.

The Conquistadors stood up. The leader raised his hand--and suddenly,
from all their open mouths, came beautiful noises that made the
listeners in the forest shiver with pleasure. It was a strange thing,
a magic thing! Cocking their hideous little heads this way and that,
and holding the shells to their ears, they began to sway in cadence,
mesmerized with delight; for not even their Elders could remember
_singing_.

The lovely sounds ended. Then the Leader, the tall splendid one with
the pleasant expression, held up his hand again and spoke, pointing
first at one group of men, then at another, who nodded and drifted away
from the ring toward the task he had set for them. The watchers in the
forest nudged one another, pointing with their stumps of hands and
conversing (in the only way that was left to them) with the expressions
that flitted across their horribly disfigured faces. _Hands!_ they
commented excitedly. _With fingers! And feet, gracefully arched feet,
with five toes on each! Oh, were not the strangers beautiful--were they
not perfect?_

However--the watchers frowned--they did not seem to be too intelligent.
Now, with evident excitement, one of them came running to the tall
leader with a handful of pebbles. Others gathered about the two of
them, yelling and pounding one another on the back as they examined the
small stones--which, the watchers knew, were completely worthless. No
one, not even these strong healthy newcomers, could eat a _stone_.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Rob! Yah-hoo!..." Harris, first astrogator, was yelling at his
long-time buddy, the pilot and captain of the space-freighter Eroica.
"Look at this stuff! Just look at it! Solaranium vein a foot thick ...
damn planet's loaded with it! _We did it! We finally did it...._"

"Well, don't burn out your jet!" Rob Cantrell chuckled, calm and
laconic in the face of this near miracle. He squinted at one
mica-bright stone, tossing it up and catching it with a grin of quiet
triumph. "Yep ... journey's end. If our rations hold out, we can mine
and refine enough pure sola to start every factory on Terra booming
again inside six months. I ... _Good Lord!_" He broke off, hand arcing
to the blaster on his hip. "What's _that_ thing? _Heads up!_" he
shouted a warning to the busy men about him. "_General alert!... we've
got visitors!_"

It was a S'zetnur child who had ventured out of hiding, drawn by
curiosity--and by the tantalizing smell that issued from a pot of stew
one of the cooks was stirring. Now, as the tiny gargoyle-figure crawled
out into the clearing from the shelter of those white-leafed trees,
everyone turned to stare--the mechanics, unloading their diggers and
refining filters; the freight crew, setting up the tents around the
big rocket; the biochemists, busily testing the flora for edibility or
possible toxicity; the ethnologists, searching for some clue to the
language and customs of the people of this planet.

Cantrell, his hand dropping slowly from his gun-butt, walked slowly
forward toward the crawling child. It squinted up at him with milky
blue eyes that could scarcely make out the outline of his tall figure.
But, at his approach, it cowered back; started to scuttle for cover.
Cantrell reached down gently and picked it up, shuddering at the little
face so close to his own. Moonstone eyes. Gargoyle mouth with crumbling
teeth. Round scabrous head that was almost hairless. Stumps of feet and
hands that had no fingers, no toes. The child squirmed frantically in
his embrace, uttering a small shrill whistle that seemed to be the only
sound it could make.

"God, it's _human_, isn't it?" Harris, standing beside him, muttered in
pity and revulsion. "Put it down, Rob! It's ... diseased!"

More of the men from Terra crowded closer, peering at the struggling
child. Then one of the chemists shouted, pointing. Cantrell whirled,
hand moving again toward his gun.

Another of the creatures was creeping out of the forest. A
woman--probably the child's mother. She limped forward, whistling
soothingly to the child, but utterly terrified herself from the look on
her bloated, twisted features. A few feet away from Cantrell, she threw
her hands over her face and flung herself prone before him; head in
the grass, she crawled toward him, reached his feet, and lay tense as
though expecting a blow....

"Poor slob! God, I've seen beggars on Terra who weren't as...." Captain
Rob Cantrell knelt slowly and set the child on its deformed feet. It
toppled over at once, unable to stand, and the mother snatched it to
her flat breast. She began to crawl again, dragging the child and
backing away with her face still thrust into the spongy ground.

"Poor ugly _slob_ ... thinks we're going to hurt her, doesn't she?"

On impulse, Cantrell strode forward, took her arm gently, and lifted
her to her feet. She swayed, clinging to the child. Casting about for
some gesture of friendship, he suddenly unstrapped the spacewatch from
his left wrist and, smiling, buckled it about the woman's scrawny
handless arm. She stared at it dumbly, milk-blue eyes darting from
the jeweled band to Cantrell's face for a moment. Then, with a little
bleating sound, she threw herself at his feet again, trembling with
terror. She lay there, clutching her baby and sobbing uncontrollably.

"Well, I'll be a--!" Cantrell glanced helplessly at Harris, "What d'you
make of _that_?"

"Doesn't understand about presents," the astrogator guessed. "Must mean
something special on this planet.... _Hey! Here come some more!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

He pointed toward the pale forest, from which a wary group of perhaps
fourteen S'zetnurs, men and women, had emerged fearfully. Their
hands--if they could be called hands--were flung up, like the woman's
to cover their faces--if they could be called faces. And when they
reached a distance of five yards from the silent group of Earthmen, all
threw themselves down flat, their heads burrowing into the spiky grass.

"Don't get it," Rob Cantrell drawled, hands on hips, legs spread apart
as he stood regarding this strange welcome. "Look; all of them are
deformed. Inbreeding, do you suppose? Or some kind of plague?..."

"Sir, I believe it's a matter of vitamin deficiency," one of the
biochemists spoke up from the group of Earthmen behind Harris. "I've
been testing a few specimens under the micro. These white leaves--and
look at that grass! It's the sunlight, I think. Not a bit of nutriment
in the soil. Another thing," he pointed out shrewdly; "has anybody seen
any animal-life yet? Ask me, I don't think there _is_ any! These poor
critters are just _starving_ to death! Malnutrition. Years and years of
it...."

Cantrell scowled, his lips pursed; he said slowly, "You know, Jim, I
believe you're right.... Well, _hell_!" He gestured impatiently to one
of the cooks who had wandered over to join the curious group. "Break
out some solid chow for these ... people. On the double!"

"Yes _sir_!"

Grinning with the sheer pleasure of filling a need, several of the crew
followed the cook. They came back with folding plates and collapsible
cups, filled to the brim with succulent stew made of dehydrated
vegetables and pressed beef. These, a bit squeamishly, they put into
the clumsy grasp of the little dwarfed S'zetnurs; laughing, they
watched how they snatched it, turning their backs to their benefactors
as they wolfed down the warm food....

The laughter died. For almost instantly three, then a dozen of the
dwarfish creatures were doubled up with nausea and stomach-cramp.
Others, gagging at the first bite, dropped their platters of food. Then
all threw themselves down before the men from Terra, groveling in the
grass at their feet as though begging for mercy....

"Lord, we're _stupid_!" Cantrell sighed. "Of _course_ they can't take
our rich food! Probably been living on herbs and stuff for Lord knows
how long...." He moved pityingly toward one groaning dwarf, writhing on
the sward and hugging his stomach. "Hey, you medics! Give me hand--"

He knelt, trying to roll the sufferer over on his back and slip a
gastrotab between the writhing lips. But, with a look of terrified
pleading, the little S'zetnur covered his face and flopped over
again, hiding his warped features in a clump of pale weeds. With his
fingerless hands he groped along the ground, found Cantrell's foot, and
drew himself up to it, wriggling in worm-like obeisance--

Then, before the Earth pilot could move, a swollen tongue crept out and
caressed his bare toes under the plastic sandal-strap.

Cantrell's reaction was instinctive. His foot came up, in sheer disgust
that any man should lick another's foot like a mongrel-dog. Cursing, he
kicked the little S'zetnur square in the mouth.

And, the next instant, hated himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blood, a thin watery trickle, ran from a corner of the gargoyle mouth;
but the S'zetnur made no move to escape. He merely lay where he was,
dumbly, holding up one arm. Opaque eyes peered warily up through the
weeds.

"Ah ... to hell with it!" the pilot burst out, furious with himself. He
started to kneel and apologize; saw the futility of it, and turned away
abruptly, striding toward the long silver ship. "Get these screwballs
out of the way!" he snapped, irritable in his shame. "We've got work to
do! We'll have to refine this sola on a night-and-day shift! No rest
for anybody ... and twenty shocks to any of you jet-monkeys I catch
trying to go over the hill! You got that?"

"Yes _sir_!"

"Yes-sir, Cap'n!"

"Yousa! I hears you talkin'!" This from Harris, who had strolled after
him, checking over his charts carefully for the return flight.

Cantrell glared at him. "And that goes for you, too--Romeo!" he
growled. "No fraternizing with the natives!"

"_Fraternize!_ With _those_ women?" Harris shuddered, thumbs in the
studded belt of his spacesuit. "Listen, I'd have to be drunker'n I've
ever been on Mars or Venus!" He broke off, looking at his friend with
faint reproach. "You shouldn't have kicked that poor slob, though.
Section 382-XV: _No overt act of violence unless to repell attack_ ...
you read your Handbook lately, chum?"

Cantrell grunted, struck one fist into his other palm sheepishly. "I
know it. I didn't mean to. But--licking my foot! But I'll make it up to
him. Some way...."

"Sure!" Harris's eyes softened. Throwing an arm around Cantrell's
shoulders, he locked step with him as they walked up the gangplank.
"Easy enough. If it's a vitamin deficiency, like Jim says, why--it'll
be a cinch for us to help these poor joes! We can ship chemicals from
Terra, every return-trip. Teach 'em to grow food by hydro-vat methods.
We could make a new world for them!"

The pilot nodded eagerly, his pleasant, alert face full of plans for
those pitifully stunted creatures, now melting back into the pale
jungle in obedience to the crewmen shooing them from the vicinity of
dangerous--and valuable--machinery.

Cantrell grinned. "We can try vitamin therapy right away," he said
happily. "Take, say, ten of the kids and feed them a test-diet for the
forty days we're here, loading up sola. May take years of treatment to
get them looking like _people_ again, but--we can sure try!"

They glanced back over their shoulders in unison, two splendid young
giants from another solar system, their eyes warm and bright with a
thing called "brotherly love"--which it had taken their own small
planet many centuries to learn. Together they disappeared into the
rocket ship.

Watching them from the white-leafed forest, the little people of
S'zetnur turned away sadly, in shame and patient resignation. In a
small clearing beyond sight of the bustling rocket-camp, they held
council, communicating with sharp whistles and facial expressions.

Then--according to the ancient law which the Elders still
recalled--they dragged forth the woman who wore The Mark on her wrist,
the gleaming Band of Rejection which the Tall Leader of the beautiful
ones had placed there with his own hand. The woman did not cry out
when they bound her, and buried her, still breathing, beside a huge
flowering tree--tossing the baby in with her, according to custom.

The man Rob Cantrell had kicked in the mouth, likewise, was made ready
for the honor bestowed on him ... and allowed to touch the _Icon_, as
was his right....

       *       *       *       *       *

The blue-green sun sank slowly, and the night-shift of the Earthmen's
work-camp took over, mining and refining solaranium ore, working
swiftly and efficiently against time.

Cantrell and Harris slept on identical cots in a central tent, waking
now and then to listen to the night-noises of this strange new
planet. S'zetnu?... It was only a designation, not a name; a term in
inter-stellar Esperanto, meaning "Seventh-from-the-Sun." Tomorrow,
Cantrell thought sleepily, they would find out what the dwarfish
inhabitants called their little world. It must have a name for they
must once have had some sort of language. There were signs, the
ethnologists reported, that they had once been a civilized people.

The pilot blew a smoke-ring at the damp ceiling of the tent, thinking
and making plans.

"Harris?" he called softly. "You awake?"

"Uh-huh. Too damned hot to sleep! Worse than Venus. It isn't the--"

"--heat; it's the humidity!" Cantrell grinned in the darkness. "Yeah,
yeah. Well, you can stand it for forty days. Say!" He sat up abruptly,
snapping his fingers on sudden thought. "If we could hire a couple of
those little S'zetnurs to locate sola veins for us, we could cut down
the time ... put the Geiger crew on one of the spare refiners! Hire
me one tomorrow, will you? A couple, I mean--two of the _older_ ones,
with rudimentary fingers and toes. They should know their way around
better.... Cripes! You can see how their race has deteriorated, each
generation a little bit worse than the one before ... the poor devils!"

"Yeah." Harris plucked Cantrell's cigarette-glow from the darkness to
take a drag. "But we're going to fix all that for them! Vital food, in
return for vital solaranium.... Why, it's a natural for trade-relations
between S'zetnu and Terra!" He blew out smoke, returned the cigarette.
"El Presidente's sure to give each of us a citation--with bonus! I can
just see my old lady spending it now. On a Martian vurna-fur coat!
She's been whining for one ever since...."

Cantrell chuckled drowsily, then sighed. "I wish I hadn't kicked
that little guy. Feel like a heel. Wish I hadn't given that woman my
spacewatch, too, in a loose moment! What time is it?"

"88-zero, shiptime," the astrogator murmured. "Go to sleep, will ya?...
I wish I was back on Tee with my baby tonight...."

Silence fell. Outside, the refiners chugged rhythmically, melting away
the solaranium from the crude ore wheeled in by the miners. At a little
distance from the camp, the Geiger experts were moving their counters
over the ground, seeking the highly-fissionable ore. The sola shortage
had shut down the industries of Terra for five years now, and sent
many a rocket-ship out into space, searching, searching ... until now,
at last, the search was ended on a tiny planet Z-north of the System.
Close! Near enough to organize a freight-lane!

But in the forest, the pallid forest beyond the camp, a gargoyle-woman
lay buried, clinging to her deformed half-idiot baby who had died with
her. Cantrell's spacewatch glinted on her stumpy wrist; mute testimony
that she must be _eliminated_, according to the ancient law that the
Elders remembered. It was strangely unfair--for there were others, many
others in the tribe, who were far more hideous than she! Mitka, who had
only a hole for a nose, and Jura, whose ears were unformed knobs on
either side of her head ... but that, of course, was for the Beautiful
Ones to judge. Their word had always been the Law....

       *       *       *       *       *

Around noon the next day, Harris reported glumly to the central tent.
Cantrell, hard at work on a sheaf of forms, glanced up, his eyes
preoccupied.

"Harris? Did you get those guides?"

Harris spread his hands. "No can find! I've had men out combing the
forest all day. Can't find a sign of those little pixies! They've just
vanished!"

Cantrell grinned. "Well, they're back again ... look; what do you think
_that_ is? A mirage?" He jerked a nod at a dwarfish figure coming
across the clearing, trailing a long train of lush tropical flowers
that had been woven into a sort of cape. A garland of the same flowers
perched askew atop the scabrous gargoyle-head. The man limped proudly,
presenting himself before Cantrell with a little bow.

"Well!" The pilot's eyebrows went up. "Who's he, the chief?" Then he
saw the man's swollen lips. "Say ... this is the poor jerk I _kicked_!"
His face softened, and he pointed to a folding chair beside his
cluttered desk. "Sit down, buster. You're hired--if I can only explain
your job to you!"

Instead, quivering, the stunted S'zetnur covered his face and threw
himself down on his face.

Harris sighed. "Here we go again!" He knelt and pulled the malformed
dwarf to his feet and shoved him into a chair.

"Now," Cantrell groaned, "comes the tough part. How can I say in
sign-lingo that we want him to locate sola veins for us? Well--here
goes!"

He held up a piece of ore, pointing and gesturing. The dwarf eyed it,
bewildered, milky-blue eyes darting from Harris to Cantrell and back
again. Cantrell pointed to the earth--

Instantly the little S'zetnur threw himself flat on the ground again,
quivering. He began to sob, holding up one stumpy arm.

"Oh, _hell_!" The spaceship's captain gave up, looking helplessly at
his astrogator. "Harris? Can you--"

Harris pulled the S'zetnur to his feet again; shoved him into the
chair; explained with patient gestures about _digging_, about _the
ore_, about _the ship_. The man's eyes, like glowing moonstones,
followed his every motion eagerly, as a stupid child's might. He took
the pebble in his hand obediently, went out to the ship, dug a small
hole in the shadow of the great rocket, and buried the piece of ore.
Then he looked up at Cantrell, towering over him in exasperation.
Harris mopped his forehead.

"I give up!" he laughed. "It's ... it's as though there was a _glass
wall_ between us! We can see each other, and hear each other. But I
can't make him _understand_. Damned if I understand him, either!"

Rob Cantrell rubbed his jaw, caressing his stubble of blond beard.

"If we only knew what's going on in that funny little head," he
muttered. "What do they _want_? Everybody wants something. If we could
just figure out what these S'zetnurs are after--besides centuries of
decent diet, which they obviously need--we could--"

He glared at the twisted little S'zetnur, decked with flowers that made
his hideous deformity even more noticeable. The man cringed at his
expression, covering his face and peeping through his short arms. Then,
emboldened, catching one of the pilot's hands between his own stumps,
he examined it admiringly, tracing each finger with his gaze. Cantrell
scowled and jerked his hand away impatiently.

The S'zetnur covered his face and threw himself flat on the ground.
Cantrell cursed and mopped his streaming forehead and neck.

"I don't get it," Harris said, scratching his head. "I just don't get
it ... hey! Maybe if we take him out to that valley a mile from camp,
we can put over the idea of his locating more sola for us. When he sees
our men mining the stuff--"

"Sound idea," Cantrell grunted. "Come on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Supporting the stumbling dwarf between them, the two Earthmen strode
across the camp and down the long hill toward the distant sound of the
pick-and-shovel crew. Two small a. g. barges sailed past them on their
way down, loaded with ore and manned by a single sweat-streaked miner,
headed for the nearest refinery.

As they neared the valley, where last night the Geiger crew had located
a rich streak of solaranium, the pilot and the astrogator noticed that
their small captive was growing very nervous. Stumbling along between
them as fast as his stumpy feet could walk, he glanced first at Harris,
then at Cantrell, his expressive features working with agitation.

When they reached a small ravine, its cliff-like walls pitted with
many small caves, the little dwarf began to bleat and squirm in their
grasp like a hysterical child being dragged to the dentist. Over his
flower-decked head, the two Earthmen looked at each other, and shrugged.

"_Now_ what?" Cantrell drawled. "This valley taboo or something, you
suppose?"

"Beats me!"

Harris stopped, pulling the little S'zetnur around and pointing to a
broad streak of sola inside the mouth of one cave. He made digging
motions. He pointed to himself and Cantrell, beaming and nodding.

"Rock," he labored. "Nicee rockee! Find for us?... Oh hell!" He laughed
at his own absurd pidgin-English, then resorted to gestures again. He
pointed to the cave, to the little dwarf, to Cantrell--

The S'zetnur shook his head violently, clapping both stunted hands
over his face. An agonized bleat issued from his twisted larynx, and
he threw himself flat before Cantrell, groveling and holding up one
arm--then, as the captain took an idle step toward the cave, he flung
his tiny malformed body before the entrance, shaking his head and
beating himself in the face with his fingerless hands.

Cantrell looked at Harris, who scratched his head, grinning.

"Beats me!" he repeated helplessly. "Guess they don't _want_ us to have
the sola--!" his eyes hardened slowly. "Yeah--maybe that's it! Maybe
they're--" He stiffened, glancing nervously toward the white jangle
that pressed closely about them on all sides. "_Maybe they're arming
right now--planning an attack--_"

Rob Cantrell's pleasant face changed. Eyes narrowed, mouth tight, he
let his gaze flicker over the working men who were under his command,
dependent on his judgment for their safety. His gaze returned to the
small S'zetnur, feebly trying to block the entrance to that natural
hole in the cliff's side. Or ... _was_ it a natural hole? Cantrell's
keen eyes became observant, noting worn places in the rock--

"There's something in this cave," Harris grunted. "Something this
little monkey doesn't want us to see ... a secret weapon, maybe?
Sa-ay!" His pleasant face hardened, like Cantrell's. "Maybe these
cookies aren't as dumb and helpless as they look! Maybe they've got
something that could wipe out our whole expedition!"

Cantrell nodded and strode forward, jerking the bleating dwarf aside
with one sweep of his muscular arm. The cave was not deep; and,
Cantrell noted with tensed nerves, there were fresh flower-petals on
the floor of the small opening. Petals like those on the flower-wreath
of this fantastically decorated little S'zetnur.

The captain groped inside. Harris stepped forward, shoving the dwarf
away as he flung himself at Cantrell again like a furious kitten.
There was, the Earthmen both saw at once, something inside. A kind of
box, crudely made of white wood, as though a clumsy child had put it
together. There was no lock, Cantrell raised the lid--

Inside, dry and crumbling, was a small doll made of brown clay. Harris
and Cantrell stared at it, amazed at its perfection of modeling. It
was, or seemed to be, a very good image of an Earthman. Certainly,
it was not intended to portray one of the stunted little S'zetnurs,
for the legs and feet were perfect, the hands beautifully formed, the
facial details fine and delicate--though there was about the thing,
Cantrell noted, an odd expression of cruelty and arrogance--

"Well! What d'ya know?" he snapped. "A graven image! The aborigines on
Terra used to make these images of an enemy--just before slipping him a
poison-dart in the back! Juju ... and they made sure it worked!"

He whirled on the little S'zetnur, who was whistling shrilly now,
jumping up and down in agitated protest.

At that moment, one of the diggers shouted a warning. Cantrell turned,
to see beyond the handful of workers in the valley a small army of
S'zetnurs advancing on them from the jungle-edge. Backs to the cliff
wall, Harris and Cantrell snatched out their blasters. The captain
yelled, warning the unarmed workers to make a dash for the camp:

"_General alert! Prepare for attack!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the dwarfs were upon them, armed rather pathetically with clubs
strapped to their fingerless hands. Advancing in a rough semi-circle
upon Cantrell and Harris, and completely ignoring the half-dozen
workers who dashed past them, the little S'zetnurs closed in. Lips
tight, eyes narrowed, the Earthmen waited until they were within ten
feet--

Then, methodically, they let go with their blasters, searing the
attackers from left to right.

Screaming, they went down, half-charred bodies and burning hair. One
little creature, luckier or bolder than the rest, struck a blow that
numbed Harris's left arm. Cantrell blazed away at him. He fell, an
unrecognizable mass of ashes.

The men from Terra pressed against the cliff wall, panting, their eyes
raking the pale jungle for the next wave of attackers.

"How d'you like these babies?" Cantrell snarled. "Planning to jump us
all the time--And we were feeling sorry for them!"

They waited, tensed for the next attack. In the distance they could
hear the siren on the spaceship, calling a general alert. Calling in
the Geiger crews, and the diggers, and the ethnologists. _Natives
hostile, natives hostile!_ the signal was screaming--

Cantrell turned his head briefly--and stiffened as he saw the small
S'zetnur decked in flowers. He was still alive, crouched just inside
the cave, clutching the mud doll and whimpering softly. The captain
glared at him, hard-eyed.

"Ambassador, huh?" He smiled without mirth. "To keep us from being
suspicious of this juju-attack, until it was too late!" He jerked his
head at Harris. "Blast him! He's a spy, isn't he? Been all over the
camp. Knows just where everything's located--"

The astrogator peered at the huddled creature nursing the doll. He
raised his gun, then swallowed hard. "Rob--I can't do it! Cold like
this, I mean ... can't we take him prisoner? A hostage?"

Cantrell glanced at him, then at the pitiful figure in the cave.

"Don't be a damned fool!" he snapped. "If he gets away and brings
reinforcements, none of us'll get off this apple alive! You lost your
guts or something?"

Harris scuffed his toe, looking down. "No-o.... It's just that....
Well, hell!" his gruff voice cracked. "He's so ... _helpless_!"

"Helpless, my eye!" Rob Cantrell growled. "There may be thousands of
these joes, closing in on us right now from that jungle! _Millions!_
All right, I'm in command," he said quietly. "Make a run for the camp.
I ... I'll do it...."

His buddy tossed him a grateful look, born of their long-time
friendship. With another look at the silent wall of forest, he sprinted
in the direction of the camp. Once he paused, wincing, as the blare of
a ray-gun sounded behind him. Then Cantrell caught up with him, his
eyes pained, his lips white.

"Poor slob!" he muttered through clenched teeth as he ran. "Poor ugly
little slob.... He kept shielding that damn doll with his body!"

They burst into the clearing, where the lieutenants were already
rounding up those of the ship's crew who were trained to fight. Others,
the workmen and the experts, were piling into the ship for safety. The
siren kept up its woman-like screaming: _Hostile natives, hostile!_

Cantrell and Harris stopped in the center of the clearing, to view
the ordered shambles with sick eyes. They glanced at each other, and
shrugged.

"All right!" the captain's clear voice rang out. "Prepare to take off!
Repeating: Prepare to take off! Abandon all equipment not vital to
crew. Repeating...."

The men from Terra were efficient men, quick, intelligent, and
well-organized under the pilot and astrogator who commanded their
expedition. In exactly 8-3 kilos, shiptime, men and machinery were
loaded aboard the big silver rocket. Fire belched from her twin jets.
She took the atmosphere of the planet designated as S'zetnur like a
pale streak of flame. In another kilo, she was bulleting into free
flight.

Cantrell, the pilot, fixed her automatic on "Sol-Terra," then strolled
back to the chart room, where Harris was rechecking their line of
flight. He sat down on the plastine desk, lighting a cigarette. Harris
took it from him, inhaled a deep drag, and handed it back. They looked
at each other, smiling wryly.

"Well ..." Rob Cantrell sighed. "There goes that presidential citation
you were yapping about--with bonus. We'll be lucky if we keep our
rating!"

"Oh, it won't be that bad," Harris predicted cheerfully. "I mean,
nobody could expect us to form a trade-alliance with a bunch of
hot-heads like that! Graven images! Tricked-up spies!" He spat
disgustedly. "And all because we wanted one shipload of lousy sola!..."

Cantrell nodded bitterly. "And we could have done so much for them in
return. A new world, I think you said!..." He emitted a short laugh,
edged with cynicism. "Well ... Terra-Government can't afford to ship
from a hostile planet. Too damn expensive. We'll just have to equip
another expedition and start looking again...."

Harris nodded absently, his eyes thoughtful. "Uh-huh.... But if we
could only have understood those little monkeys! Maybe they didn't mind
our taking the sola. Maybe it was something else.... Rob," he blurted,
"one of the junior ethnologists has a theory; did you hear? He...."

"Junior ethnologists have always got a theory!" the captain snorted.
"Lack of experience!"

"Yeah, but ..." Harris pursued. "This kid says he thinks those little
S'zetnurs were a cult of beauty-worshippers. You know? Like they used
to have on Venus? Eugenic mating--killing off the imperfect ones. He
says they just don't understand about nutrition; that's why it's so
tragic that they're all deformed and diseased now. None of them are
beauties any more, and they don't know why. But when they saw us...."

"Nuts!" said Cantrell rudely.

"Yeah, but.... The doll. Maybe it was an image of the way _they_ used
to be. A sort of pattern for them to remember.... And you know how that
poor joe kept ... _looking_ at us? The one all tricked-up in flowers?
This ethno thinks they sent him to be mated with one of our women...."

"Good God!" the pilot laughed.

"... and that poor slob of a woman, who acted so upset when you
strapped your spacewatch around her wrist. The kid thinks you marked
her for death, and...."

"Oh, go soak your head! And that junior ethnologist's, too!" Cantrell
chuckled. "I understood those babies, all right! They're just a bunch
of greedy, ignorant morons, who were determined not to let a shipful of
strangers cart off any of their lousy little planet! You and your ...
glass wall!"

He punched Harris on the shoulder in affectionate scorn. The astrogator
grinned feebly; then with more assurance, because Cantrell was his
friend and he trusted his judgment.

"Yeah ..." he said. "Yeah, Rob; I guess you're right...."





End of Project Gutenberg's The Conquistadors Come, by M. E. Counselman

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CONQUISTADORS COME ***

***** This file should be named 63982.txt or 63982.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/8/63982/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
