The Project Gutenberg EBook of It, by Hayden Howard

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: It

Author: Hayden Howard

Release Date: December 10, 2020 [EBook #64009]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IT ***




                                  IT

                           By HAYDEN HOWARD

                  _Slowly, inexorably, the struggling
               Earthman was metamorphosed into a Siamese
            twin--a twin whose partner was jellied death._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories January 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Before the Captain's feet fled ghosts of dust. Crackling with static
electricity they fled before his body-charge. Ringing out through pools
of heat mirage they mushroomed up the toppled walls. In his ears their
crackling was laughter. In his brain he screamed at them.

Crazy dust ghosts, you are more self-willed than I.

His runaway feet splatted on and on over Hogan's deep-toed, running
bootprints in a race of death he could not stop. Crazy dust ghosts.
They at least could settle and die. He had the thing on his back. He
had it driving him endlessly on, his body burning with exertion, his
uncontrollable hands clutching the auto-electric rifle. He had already
killed one of his men.

Fool, Joe Hogan, at least stop and try to kill me. This way you are
only leading me to the spheroid. Then it will be able to kill you all.

Stop, stumble, anything damn you; now he was thinking at his feet. But
they never faltered.

Suddenly the thing shifted its soft weight and drove his feet hard,
hurling him face down behind a fallen girder an instant before Hogan's
manmade lightning clanged along the girder and flushed sparrows of
dust into the sky. Behind the dust the Captain's body leaped to a
new location and bobbing from its cover fired, not blindly as if
dust-veiled eyes had aimed but deliberately, with the slow-squeezing
aim of its organic radar. But its batsense was too late, for it
quivered angrily on his neck.

As his body burst through the dust, the Captain's good eye caught the
faroff glint of sun on moving steel where Hogan fled into a jungle of
girders. The Captain's long legs drove hard in pursuit, but after a few
hundred yards they began to stagger.

Bloodsucker, his thoughts rang, you are as stupid as a man. Keep
driving me this fast and you'll have a dead horse. And what will you be
without me? Black gunk frying in the sun!

Perhaps I'll die soon, he hoped as his quivering legs rebelled and the
city misted before his good eye.

Angrily it jabbed his thumb into his blinded eye. But it could not spur
fresh activity from his legs. No pain could do that now.

It let him walk awhile. Soon he crossed the blurry tracks his men had
left when he led them into the dead city, unsuspecting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Single file they had threaded among the collapsed dome-structures and
overthrown cylindricals, a segmented worm of men probing within a
vast and withered corpse. First the Captain, then Grimes, then Ives,
Kwatahiri, Spencer with his hog-snouted prisma-reflex camera, finally
Hogan, the worm's rear end. Six of them. The Captain had left Templar
to "guard" the spheroid.

In the last city, where as in the preceding five they had found no
sign of life except a scum of dried protoplasm thirty feet up on the
sides of the buildings, Templar had begun to see "them". The Captain
winced every time he saw Templar's dark blue eyes superimposed on the
wreckage ahead, eyes widening with unspeakable horror at something no
one else could see. Templar had been too good a soldier to scream, but
the Captain was an old hand at spotting "symptoms", so Templar sat this
one out. And the Captain had made the long-awaited decision: after this
city they were going home.

Orders are orders, but a good captain will not interpret them so
narrowly as to expend his men for no purpose. There is room for
judgment. He had been sent to ascertain if there were life on this
seared planet. After reasonable search he had found none. They were
going home.

Overhead the sky was empty, roofless, blinding white. It sucked the
sweat before it could form and made their eyeballs stick. It shimmered
on the prostrate girders and made them scorching hot. That the girders
were silicon instead of steel did not excite them anymore. Nor did they
exclaim over the generators of malleable glass with inner windings
clearly visible like demonstration models or the strange doorways, all
of them exactly three feet in diameter, all of them exactly thirty feet
above the cracked mud streets as though the intervening space had been
filled with water. It was too damn hot.

As they wormed toward the core of the city, Hogan, who followed
Spencer, began to hum softly about a red-haired baby with two great big
hums. He kicked up the dust and chattered to himself. He blinked at the
white sky and tripped. Touching a girder involuntarily, he staggered
back cursing, leaving the skin of his hand and wrist smoking on the
silicon.

"Damn that Templar," he shrilled, "drinking beer in the cool of the
spheroid!"

"In the cool of the spheroid," cried the echoes.

"The spheroid," replied echoes of the echoes.

Hogan dropped his rifle with a clatter and sucked his wrist.

"Shake it up," shouted the Captain from the head of the worm.

"Hogan's hurt," Spencer called from the tail. But Hogan lurched forward
hissing: "Tend your own jet hole."

The Captain was back there, tall and concerned, grabbing Hogan's arm,
making him show the burn. Deftly he bandaged it. "You can go back to
the ship if you want to."

"Hell no and let you guys find something worth something," Hogan
retorted and spat near Spencer's foot.

The Captain watched the gob of saliva sizzle and vanish. He looked
across into Hogan's red-veined eyes, then down into Spencer's wide gray
ones. Spencer's cheeks were puffed, flaming red. His lips were puffed,
cracked and quivering slightly as though he was getting ready to laugh
or cry. He shivered when the Captain squeezed his shoulder.

Too young, the Captain thought. I shouldn't have brought him out here.
But he didn't say anything, just squeezed Spencer's shoulder again and
trotted back to the head of the worm.

The monster had a million legs and it was shiny blue. A smooth
hemisphere, it squatted on the hub cap of the city, holding the dead
lifelines, the puppet strings of the city, python-thick electrical
conduits that radiated out in all directions to tie the city together,
to integrate the myriad mechanisms of the ultra-technical city, to
bleed the streams of electrons that were the life blood to the city.
There was life in the old boy yet.

When the Captain stepped too near a conduit, lightning knocked him
down. When Spencer started to help the Captain up, a four-inch spark
bit his finger. Hogan hee-hawed. But when the Captain jumped up and,
grinning, poked his finger an inch from Hogan's dished-in nose Hogan
yelped with pain.

"Yes, Hogan," the Captain laughed, "if you had gone back you'd of
missed this. Here is the brain of the city, perhaps of the planet. If
there is life on this planet we should find it here."

"Check this!" Spencer shouted. He had backed away to include the entire
monster in camera focus. Now he was running toward them waving a print.

While the Captain examined it, Spencer turned the pointer-knob on the
back of the camera, watched the needle creep across the dial, then
opened the back and removed a second print. But the Captain was still
staring at the first one. He turned it upside down, held it to the
light, looked at the back. Hogan elbowed between the two men and poked
a black-rimmed fingernail at the top of the print.

"When did you climb on top, Spencer? I never saw you."

"I didn't."

Hogan hee-hawed. "Then how'd this picture show you standing up there?
You were up there and the Captain took the picture. Come on, quit
kidding, my eyes don't fool."

Very carefully, trying to keep his hands steady, the Captain lit a
cigarette and inhaled. He watched the smoke rise. "It could be a trick
reflection."

"Or a mirage," Spencer filled in. "It's hot enough for a mirage."
Then he handed over the second print. "But in this one I'm opening a
trapdoor."

"Ho!" Hogan shouted. "This one wasn't taken from the ground. Look at
the angle. This was taken from a copter."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Captain exhaled very slowly. Due to the curve of the hemisphere,
this trapdoor could not be seen from their location on the ground.
But from thirty feet up, the level of the scum line, it would have
been visible, if the trapdoor was really there. He was afraid it was.
Somewhere. Was it on Pluto? He had heard tales of people, or were they
machines? who had been able to rearrange molecular patterns, when
initial cohesion was not great, by remote control. But there was no
life here. The flare-up of this planet's sun had surely extinguished
all life, even far below the surface.

Without a warning Hogan clipped Spencer on the mouth. Even sane he
was dangerous when he thought he was being made to play the fool. Now
he was a harshly breathing windmill of fists and boot-toes until the
Captain stunned him with a judo blow to the back of the neck.

"You alright, Spencer? Just hold your head between your legs, you'll
be all right." The Captain turned. "Grimes, would you bring me your
climbing rope. No, don't tie him up. I'm going to use it to get on top
of that dome." He bent on the grappling hook. On the third attempt he
snagged something up there he couldn't see. "Don't look at him Spencer.
Go take three more pictures; that's an order."

By the time he had dragged himself to the top, Spencer was back.

"First picture I'm climbing inside," he shouted. "Second picture you're
climbing inside. Third picture Grimes is climbing inside."

"So your camera thinks it photographs the future does it?" the Captain
shouted. "Ives and Kwatahiri come on up. No, Kwatahiri stay there;
Spencer better stick with me today. Bring the gun, Ives."

After Spencer skinned up the rope, Ives stood holding onto it, shifting
his weight from one foot to the other. "I guess the Captain forgot how
I burned my hands yesterday."

"That's O.K.," Grimes said. "He don't care who goes. You stay here and
I'll go. Bye, bye Hogan."

Hogan swore and rubbed his neck. "All of 'em, crazier'n Templar,"
he muttered, and he crawled over in the shade and swigged Spencer's
canteen. No one was going to rabbit punch him and get away with it.

When Grimes caught up with the other two, they were already deep
inside the control chambers. The translucent walls bathed the rows of
blank-faced dials and drooping levers in a blue light. Further down,
where they passed below ground level, they had to switch on their
flashlights. The narrow ramp corkscrewed tighter and tighter as it
plunged into the depths until the Captain began to feel mild twinges
of claustrophobia. But it was cooler down there, and his legs kept
hurrying him downward.

"Hurry up Cap," Spencer panted behind him.

Why hurry? thought the Captain, but he began to run. Why hurry? With
what amounted to a great effort of will he stopped. Spencer rammed into
him, knocked him sprawling, scrambled right over him without a word of
apology. Grimes stepped on the Captain's back as he tried to force his
way past, but the Captain grabbed his ankle.

"Leggo sir, I gotta be first," Grimes gasped.

"First where?"

"I dunno." But he tried to twist away without hurting the Captain. "If
you let me go I'll find out for you," he added craftily. By this time
even the glow of Spencer's light had disappeared.

The Captain shouted for Spencer to come back but there was no answer.

"I'll find Spencer," Grimes pleaded. "Please, sir." With that he kicked
the Captain's wrist and escaped. Sitting up, the Captain watched
Grimes' light vanish into the depths. After a moment of hesitation he
followed. He wanted to go back, to get another gun, to stop and think
this thing out, but he kept on walking, part of his brain reassuring
him that he was doing the right thing, searching for his men, doing his
duty. But he knew that wasn't right. He was being pushed.

When the ramp levelled off he managed to stop again, sitting down
determinedly on the stones. He slapped his face and shook his head,
but when he arose he shuffled forward again until his light cast a
dark shadow on the floor. Happy for an excuse to stop, he dropped on
his knees beside it. A toy? A tiny monstrosity with a sausage-shaped
thorax, six webbed feet beneath, nearly a dozen hands or feelers on
top, some of them specialized pincers or hooks, others as generalized
as the hands of a man, all of them semi-retractable. It had a rubbery
feel. What bothered him was the head. There really wasn't any, only
a mount for two froglike eyes, no space for a brain. Where the neck
should have been clung a small blob of waste. But he had difficulty in
pulling it off, and when he did he saw it was part of the design, an
auxiliary creature bloated like a woodtick, a bladder and a fang-ringed
mouth, nothing more than a toy parasite.

Repressing a shudder he fitted the toy back together and dropped it in
his pocket. Then his feet hurried him down the ramp. It was plunging
again, steeper and steeper until he tripped and rolled, cradling his
flashlight, and banged against something hard and vibrant. All around
him in the darkness, water-choked voices sang: "Go on, go on, go on,"
until he flashed his light about and his eyes assured his ears that
the voices were only the sounds arising from tall, glass cylinders of
rhythmically perking mercury.

Abruptly he realized that the mercury columns operated the tall black
machine in the center and that this was a hydraulic press which in
turn fed the humming electric motor beside it. Piezoelectricity on a
practical scale, electricity produced from the compression-expansion
of rock crystals in the press, power for the press produced from the
expansion of mercury vapor, the heat for expansion drawn from the core
of the planet, the whole set-up was as immortal as machinery could be.
It might have been running for thousands of years.

But everything was swept from his mind by the overpowering vision of
a round red door with a handle shaped like the letter S, and his body
hurried across the room, down another passageway, around a curve and
there was the door, with Grimes and Spencer struggling to turn the
handle.

They didn't bother to look up until he shoved them aside. Seizing
Grimes' rifle, he jammed the barrel into the S and levered the handle,
oblivious of the fact that he was smashing the front sight. Slowly the
door opened from its center, widening like Spencer's camera's eye.

"Stay back, that's an order," he heard his voice say. Then his body
lunged through the aperture into freezing darkness. The cold room
arched away in all directions, drawing his flashlight through metal
grillwork into nothingness. The light caught something black and
swollen up there, almost directly above his head. But the foul odor at
his feet drew the light down onto black, ruptured sacks that had fallen
from their perches in the grill and spoiled and smeared the floor with
corruption. Unwillingly he knelt to touch one of them. Cold, and the
floor was icy cold, throbbing gently beneath his feet, refrigerated.

Overhead something hissed, and his mind tried to break for the door.
He saw himself doing it, rushing past the two faces in the doorway,
fleeing up the ramp to the surface. But he was still there, almost
devoutly kneeling when the thing rustled silkily and plopped upon his
neck.

       *       *       *       *       *

He gasped instinctively throwing up his arm to knock it off. But it
froze his arm midway, and he knelt there, a statue, trying to make
his arm obey. A sharp pain told him it was boring into his neck.
Then he fell on his side, his legs kicking like a dying rabbit's. In
a moment he couldn't even do that. By the time Spencer reached him
he was completely paralyzed and voiceless. But his mind was clear
again, clearer than it had been since he approached the great control
dome on the surface, almost as though the thing had to devote its
entire tele-force to the control of his body. There was none left for
Spencer and Grimes. As they raised his head and chafed his hands and
made ineffectual suggestions they seemed perfectly normal again. He
realized that in the semi-darkness they had not noticed it on his back.

To his horror he felt the big muscles of his body moving one by one,
experimentally. His hands clasped and unclasped of their own accord.
His vocal cords emitted a frightened croak as his left hand closed
about the barrel of the flashlight. Without other warning he clubbed
Grimes' forehead and felt bone crush beneath the blow. Mouth sagging
open with the amazement of death, Grimes sank to the floor. The
Captain's body lunged clumsily over him, flailing the flashlight at
Spencer's head.

"Captain, you hit Grimes," the young man shrilled the self-evident
as he back-pedalled, forearms shielding his head from the Captain's
awkward left-handed blows. Whirling he fled through the doorway and
along the corridor. But he was a short-legged young man, running
too long in the same spot, and the Captain loped behind him, heavy
flashlight raised to strike.

With a terrific effort the Captain struggled to recapture his own body.
Concentrating a rush of thought on his right knee he made it buckle,
pitching him on his face upon the stones. It had not yet learned to put
out his hands to break his fall. When it managed to raise his head,
Spencer's footsteps had faded away and it was quivering angrily.

Then came further horror. His own fingers punished him. Experimentally
they probed his left eye. When the thing felt his tremors of agony it
screwed his thumbnail into the eyeball. When he regained consciousness
the pain was on the other side of a wall of numbness. His body sat
up, and he realized that it had been unable to move him while he was
unconscious.

Perhaps I can catch it by surprise? Cautiously he raised his right
hand toward the back of his neck, thinking a jumble of thoughts that
he hoped would conceal his purpose. He almost reached it. Quivering
angrily it forced his hand down again to discipline his eye. Through
the curtain of pain he thought back: if it had access to the thinking
part of my brain, my first thought about catching it would have given
me away. As it was, I very nearly succeeded. It is torturing me now
because it is frightened. Next time it is off guard, I will strike
quickly.

       *       *       *       *       *

As it stood him up, he tried again. Its punishment made him faint.
But that was a moral victory for him. If it became over-emotional
and killed him, that would be a moral victory too. With the death of
Grimes, he had lost interest in survival, but the thing had not. He
suspected it knew it was the last of its species. Probably its drive
for survival and reproduction was tremendous. If he were to die, the
thing, like the tiny model parasite in his pocket, would be without
means of locomotion. A helpless sack and a mouth, that's all it would
be if he were dead.

It walked his body unerringly through pitch darkness to the
refrigerator room, picked up the rifle by the barrel, ran his fingers
over the smashed front sight, down the barrel, over the electro-coil
and onto the action. When it started pulling the switches while the
muzzle still leaned against his chest, he became hopeful that the end
was in sight. But the safety-catch proved to be on. Finally it released
that. Resting the barrel on his shoulder, it went after the switches
again, while he tried surreptitiously to aim the muzzle where it should
be.

Lightning scorched the back of his neck and the gun clattered to the
floor. But he felt it shaking violently on his back. When he made a
grab for it, he almost caught it off guard. Then it didn't even punish
him, just clung there shaking. Inside his brain, the Captain smiled.
Apparently it was unfamiliar with such weapons. He was surprised its
first move had not been to retrieve some powerful weapon of its own.
Perhaps the planet had been so well organized or even civilized that
there had been no stimulus to invent or use weapons of this sort?

Cautiously it raised the rifle, this time pointing the muzzle the other
way. Lightning flared. It dropped the rifle. Quickly it picked it up
and fired again and again like a child with a new toy. When it raised
his hand, instead of gouging his eye, it gently stroked his cheek. He
shuddered.

Bending him over, the thing ran his hands over Grimes. It felt Grimes'
wrist, then felt his, then felt Grimes' again. Suddenly it released him
and he sank limp and exhausted across Grimes' body. Perhaps it wanted
to see if he could help Grimes, bring him back to life, otherwise,
why this solicitude? He considered making another grab for it, but he
knew it would be on guard. He would be smarter to co-operate. He went
through the motions of artificial respiration, then shrugged. What
would it make of this gesture? He began to talk to the thing, then
to tap out morse code on the floor, finally to trace out triangles,
squares, pentagons with his fingers: no response. Without warning he
grabbed with both hands.

It did not even bother to punish him. It set his hands to gathering
the small cold bodies of its species. When he was through they made
only a double handful that he carried up a twisted ramp, through doors
that creaked automatically in the darkness, to a warm, faintly sweet
smelling room. Here he laid the bodies on a corrugated ledge.

In darkness he knelt and beat his knuckles on the floor. Rising, his
fingers pressed a button. Something clicked and it began to swing its
weight rhythmically as if it danced to a sound he could not hear. Or
could it be rhythm received through some other sense perception unknown
to man? After a while he pressed several buttons in rapid succession.
A blinding electric arc leaped from the ceiling, turning the heap of
bodies into a crackling funeral pyre.

The smoky light revealed row on row of strangely carved figures, model
dome-structures and cylindricals, shapes strung from wires resembling
fish, toys like the one in his pocket, and many-creased forms
resembling walnut meats or possibly brains. As the light died away, it
jabbed the Captain's eye as if to make him feel pain in honor of its
dead companions. It jabbed with increasing savagery until he fainted
and ended the ceremony.

When he regained consciousness it set his hands to scraping the ashes
into a smooth bowl. His hands placed this on a shelf and his feet
carried him back down the twisting ramp. As he reached the bottom he
heard the excited voices of Spencer and Kwatahiri, then Ives' deeper
voice as his feet hesitated in the corridor. It clutched his rifle
hard. Turning into a side room it snatched up something that felt like
wire netting. Then it made his feet walk softly down the main corridor
toward the voices, and he mentally cursed his men for their ill
caution. All three fools had crowded into the refrigerator room. But to
his relief his body hurried up the ramp, through the power room, then
up the second ramp to the control room and the surface.

As the glare of the sun struck the thing, it made a long shudder pass
through the Captain's body. Then it prodded his blind eye as though it
somehow blamed him for the desolation out there. But it prodded him
with finesse as it drew him back out of the sun, for his efficiency was
essential, no matter what its next move.

From below drifted Hogan's hoarse voice crooning of a red-haired baby
with two great big hums. The thing unbuttoned the Captain's shirt and
drew it over his head like a cowl. Then it slung the rifle and opened
out the wire net. After innumerable vacillations and quiverings it
sent him sliding down the rope, unconscious that the rope was burning
through the skin of his hands.

"There you are," Hogan shouted. "I knew Spencer'd pulled a Templar.
What'd you find?" He wasn't going to make anything of the rabbit punch.

The Captain's legs gave way as they struck the ground and he sprawled
awkwardly.

"Geeze Cap, you really burnt your hands. What's the matter, are
you sick? What happened to your eye?" As he extended his hand, the
Captain's body leaped away. As it lunged forward again, net swung high,
his shirt slipped back, making Hogan's expression change from surprise
to bug-eyed horror. Netting a strong man did not prove as practical
as the thing may have imagined. Mouthing obscenities, Hogan shook
loose, scooped up his rifle and fled. As he reached the cover of a
cylindrical, he whirled, fired, missing an easy, motionless target in
his haste, and fled again. The thing unslung the rifle and started in
pursuit.

Hogan's tracks were easy to follow in the dust, but where whirling wind
from the cross streets had swept them away, the thing followed as
confidently as ever. It was not hunting by sight. After they exchanged
shots and crossed over the trail the party had made on entering the
city, it became obvious that Hogan was leading it straight to the
spheroid. The Captain's brain cursed him silently. The fool!

As he topped the last rise, the thing stopped him abruptly. There,
gleaming in the sunshine was the spheroid. Before the entry hatch two
tiny figures gesticulated. Hogan was telling Templar all about it.
Shivering, the thing pulled the shirt up over his head again. Then it
dallied, still shivering, obviously searching for a plan of action.

Didn't expect anything like that did you? the Captain thought. He tried
to speak and did manage to drool a little. Then it started him down the
hill, freezing his left hand at waist level long before he could grab.
Real terror struck the Captain now. The thing was going to try some
sort of bluff. It was going to try to take the ship.

"Here he comes," shouted Templar.

It waved the Captain's left arm and broke into a run. Templar ran to
meet it. But Hogan ran after Templar and grabbed his shoulder. Templar
shook him off.

"Stop," Hogan screamed. "I tell you, he's a murdering maniac."

But Templar ran to the Captain.

"Put your arm over my neck, sir. Gee you've hurt your eye terribly."

But the Captain gave no sign of understanding. He pulled back
suspiciously when Templar reached for his arm.

"Sir, are you all right? I think Hogan is almost crazy enough to shoot
us. He's gone absolutely mad."

Covering them with his rifle, Hogan came closer, his dust-streaked face
aquiver with indecision. "He's nuts Temp. Look at his face. Why doesn't
he speak?"

Shoot me you fool, the Captain's brain screamed. Beneath its hood the
thing quivered violently, but it held the Captain's body under perfect
control.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hogan jammed his rifle muzzle against the Captain's head. "Speak, damn
you, speak. What's on your back? You see Temp, he's so crazy he can't
even speee--"

Violently the Captain's body grappled for possession of the rifle.
With a blinding flash it went off between them. Over and over in the
dust they rolled, while Templar danced about and did nothing. As the
Captain's hands clamped on Hogan's windpipe he saw Templar had finally
picked up the rifle. Surely he must see the thing on his back. Shoot
me, you fool.

Gasping, Hogan tore loose and swung his fist against the Captain's
teeth. Lunging, he drove his knee into the Captain's stomach.

In that moment Templar made his decision. He slammed down the rifle
barrel on Hogan's skull.

Gently, the Captain's hands took the rifle away from Templar. They
pointed the muzzle at his belly and signalled for him to lie down. When
Templar stared uncomprehending, they fired a blast near his cheek. By
the time the Captain's hands had finished trussing Templar with his own
trousers and belt, the blue-eyed young man had noticed the thing on his
Captain's neck--and quietly gone mad.

After binding Hogan's unconscious bulk, it dragged both of them into
the spheroid. There it frantically opened drawers, thumbed through
illustrations in books and manuals, pulled levers and pressed buttons
indiscriminately, as though it was looking for a clue to guide its
further actions. It had dropped its net by the control dome. Now it
seemed to be searching for some more effective means of taking men
alive. The auto-electric gun manual held its attention, especially
the circuit diagrams that showed how the deadly stream of electrons
might be widened into a stunning spray. Unfortunately there was even
a line drawing of a man stunning and tying a venupod. It stared for a
long time at the accompanying frequency tables. The setting-numbers on
the receiver of the gun, the corresponding numbers on the table, the
logic of mathematics made the thing's inability to read words quite
immaterial.

When Spencer clambered through the hatch, the diffusion ray stunned him
in his tracks. Quickly it leaped out and stunned Ives and Kwatahiri.
After the Captain's hands had bound them with climbing ropes, they lay
on the floor of the spheroid, their limp bodies gradually stiffening
with horror as the effects of the ray wore off. As their voices began
to curse and argue and plead, night descended. But it did not need to
turn on the lights.

By morning the men were moaning for water, and the thing seemed to
notice the Captain's increasing weakness. It freed him to see what he
would do to help himself.

The Captain lunged for the water faucet, but, as the cool water
trickled before his eyes and the men on the floor cried out for it, the
Captain was thinking. Taking down the small bottle of poison intended
for zoological specimens, he poured a few drops into a glass; not much,
his stomach would throw back a large dose before it had time to take
effect. He had seen that Ives had already rubbed his wrist bonds thin.
In a few hours Ives would be free to help the others.

As the Captain raised the glass, the thing quivered and forced his arms
down. It made him kneel beside Hogan, hold the glass to Hogan's lips.
The still-dazed man drank greedily.

While Hogan was dying, a slow process, it savagely punished the
Captain's eye. But he welcomed the pain. Even the thing was unable to
control the heaving of his chest or the tears coursing from his good
eye.

Spencer raised his head: "Captain, if you can hear me, I want you to
know that we understand what has happened. We are still with you, if
you are there. If you have to kill us to beat this thing, that's all
right."

After that, it gave the Captain no more freedom. With much hesitation
and quivering it filled a clean glass and gave his four surviving men
water. Then it carefully examined the food in the refrigerator. But
Ives was the only one who would eat. After a safety-waiting period, it
stuffed the Captain's mouth with only those kinds of food that Ives had
eaten.

When the sun began to slant into the open hatchway, the Captain felt
the thing's body take on a new motion, a slow, regular rolling motion
that increased in speed as it sat his body beside Ives and bent his
back until the thing touched Ives' neck. When Ives ceased screaming,
the Captain's body rose and turned. On Ives' neck clung a tiny replica
of the thing.

By late afternoon it had also made Templar and Kwatahiri hosts. Only
Spencer seemed conscious, his wide gray eyes watching the Captain's
every move. When it tried again to feed him, he clenched his teeth and
turned his head away. But the others chewed and swallowed mechanically.

When it went back to the refrigerator, the Captain managed to
deflect his left hand so that it drew out a can of beer instead of a
grapefruit. A vague hope arose in the Captain's brain as his hands
clumsily punched a hole in the can. The thing filled a glass and knelt
before Spencer.

Drink it, drink it, drink it, the Captain's brain shouted.

Spencer stared at the Captain's face for a long time as though he was
trying to read something there. Then he opened his lips and gulped the
beer.

When the thing sat the Captain down at the table, he noticed the
grenade lying between the screw driver and the artichoke. So near but
yet so far, if he could only pull the pin. But his hands moved past the
grenade to the screw driver. The screw driver was the thing's beer can
punch. Using the wrench for a hammer, it raised a geyser of beer. Of
its own free will it raised the can to the Captain's lips.

The beer was bitter, stinging pleasure, cold in the throat, warm in the
belly. He put it away fast and reached for another can. After a slight
hesitation it freed his hands to punch the holes, one to take the gush
of beer, one to keep it flowing. It fizzed in his mouth and bubbled out
of the corners and over his chin. A cold stream crept down his neck to
his collar bone. The third can he drank more daintily. With the fourth
he felt the thing relax. Its weight sagged a bit as though it was
feeling the effects of the alcohol in his bloodstream, and it let his
hands relax upon the table.

Gently he glided his left hand toward the grenade, but the hand froze,
then curled back for another can of beer. His right hand was a trifle
unsteady as it raised the can to his lips. On the next can he forgot
to punch the second hole and gulped the golden pleasure in erratic
jets until he was sucking an empty can. Both he and it were game for
another. He could feel the beer bubbling and trying to come back up.
He could feel the tautness of his grinning lips, the limpness of the
weight upon his neck. Gradually he edged his left hand toward the
grenade, but the thing curled it back for another can.

Opening this can was troublesome and he forgot about the grenade. His
wife smiled at him across the table. Soon they were floating down
through blue warmth toward Earth so green and soft beneath.

"S' bedtime," he mumbled. The sound of his own voice sat him up
straight. He remembered where he was and his smile went away. Then
he felt it coming back again with his teeth hard beneath it. Very
cautiously he slid his right hand up his cheek and back over the short
hair on his neck until his fingers touched the thing's shrinking
tissue. It slid his hand away and quivered in gentle admonition.

"Please," his voice whispered, "it will feel so good." And his hand
tried again, like a gentle lover.

Across the room Spencer's eyes glistened wide in the gathering dusk.
Templar moaned softly in his sleep. The faucet dripped loudly. And the
Captain's fingers closed about something smooth and yielding, yet plump
with blood, a tick ripe for the bursting.

With a great brassy shout he drove his fingers through it. As his
nails gouged through writhing jelly, the agonies of the thing's
short-circuiting nervous system became hammer blows upon the base of
his skull. Frantically, with numbing fingers, he tore at the connecting
nerve links. He was a Siamese twin whose partner was death.

The floor spun by. A blazing nova, then galaxies of stars burned out
his optic nerve and darkness struck. For an instant infinity equalled
zero.

Then his good eye opened and puzzled at the mountain so close its
wrinkled gray surface was a blur. As he raised his cheek from the floor
the mountain became Hogan's trouser leg. The Captain felt his throat
constrict. Painfully word-pictures forced themselves upon him. Hogan,
Grimes, Hogan, Grimes, they whirled in a tightening circle of hysteria.

"Captain," Spencer's quiet voice broke the chain of self-recrimination.
"Can you hear me, Captain?"

The Captain leaped erect and brushed a nasty mess of skin and jelly
from his shoulder.

Think about it later; let the court of inquiry think about it, he told
himself. You're their Captain, man. Act like one.

Swiftly he untied Spencer. Then, kneeling beside each of the three
unconscious men, he carefully extracted the thing's progeny from their
necks, twisting and bullying the tiny parasites until they drew in
their nerve extensions and came loose in his hands.

In the icebox between the celery and the beer cans they resembled three
over-ripe avocados as their frantic pulsations died away and the cold
made wrinkles in their skins.

"When are you going to kill them?"

"The trans-galactic biology teams will want them alive. We will keep
them in suspended animation the way the thing survived so long until
we reach--" The Captain's voice faltered as he readied Templar's hypo;
Ives was already groaning and trying to sit up, but he wanted Templar
to awaken more gently. "--Earth."

"Earth," Spencer repeated solemnly. "Earth, Earth, Earth." Suddenly he
smiled and the Captain's smile joined him.

They were going home.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IT ***

***** This file should be named 64009-0.txt or 64009-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/0/64009/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

