The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Pit Of Nympthons, by Stanley Mullen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Pit Of Nympthons

Author: Stanley Mullen

Release Date: December 11, 2020 [EBook #64020]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PIT OF NYMPTHONS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         The PIT of NYMPTHONS

                           By STANLEY MULLEN

            _Locked in the mutant jungle of Venus were the
           horror-secrets of the universe. Here, into these
            thousand deaths, with a Tihar-trotting convict
              to lead her, went luxury-soft Kial Nasron._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories November 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Hailard, director of Venusian Exports, was not given to unnecessary
elaborations or complexities of speech. He let his attention stray from
the girl to a tiny scale-model of the first rocket ship to land on
Venus, and reflected bitterly that after two hundred years the planet
still held both problems and eery mysteries for the Earth colonists.

"But a convict," Kial Nasron protested. She was the daughter of Torkeg
Nasron, Martian politician and the largest single shareholder in VE. As
such she felt entitled to make a nuisance of herself. However, she did
have a tragic problem.

Hailard sighed. "A man without deviltry in him has little capacity for
wisdom, or sainthood either. Convict or not, Craig Alston is the man
for your job."

The sharp sound of her indrawn breath puzzled Hailard. "I didn't know
you knew him."

Kial shrugged. "I don't, personally. I've never seen him, though I know
the name and remember something about the case. But we were talking
about an expedition into the Tihar Forest to look for my sister."

Hailard studied her critically. "Yes, we were. But you don't really
want my advice, and I doubt if you'll like it. Your request puts me in
an awkward position."

"Be specific." Her expression was that of a woman used to having her
own way. It reminded him of her father, and he had uneasy conviction
that the interview was going to be difficult.

"All right, I will be. You don't understand Venus. If you were familiar
with conditions here, you wouldn't need descriptions or explanations.
This is a strange, savage planet, and the Tihar Forest is the most
vicious part of it."

The girl stopped him scornfully. "But surely a well-equipped
expedition...."

Hailard smiled. "There's no such thing as far as the Tihar Forest is
concerned. After forty years on Venus I still know nothing about the
interior. Nor does anyone else. The forests here are freaks. Ages
ago, atomic holocaust got out of hand. In a few places certain forms
of life survived. Nature went mad. The Tihar Forest is its laboratory
of gibbering, unnatural experiments--half a million square miles of
luxuriant, nightmarish wonderland. Not one living creature, plant or
animal, is the product of sane, orderly evolution. It's an asylum for
the cripples, freaks and lunatic-fringe of abnormal creation."

Hailard went on in his clear way. They claimed that once he had studied
for the ministry. He had convictions and he knew what he was talking
about.

"True, Venusian Exports holds a license for limited exploitation of its
peculiar resources. But we nibble at the edges. We collect rare furs
and leathers, some valuable hardwoods and minerals, but we don't even
try to penetrate the forest depths, or develop any plantations there.
It's too dangerous. There have been some hideously disturbing rumors
recently, and a marked increase of casualties...."

"My sister is there," Kial Nasron said stubbornly. "In this place of
horror you describe. As long as we thought she had died in the crash of
the _Krajulla_, we accepted the tragedy. But now that we have evidence
she may be alive, neither my father nor I will rest until we locate the
wreckage. She may be hurt or lost or a captive of savage natives. The
Company assured us you would give us every possible aid in finding and
rescuing her."

Hailard nodded wearily. "I have orders from the executive board to put
all resources at your disposal. Our staff will give you every technical
assistance, and a fast survey cruiser has been adapted for low-altitude
scouting. I disapprove of the expedition, particularly of you or your
father going along. It will be hard enough, and you are both rash,
headstrong and inexperienced. And there'll be difficulty arranging for
a crew."

"I don't understand. Aren't the men convicts?"

Hailard spoke angrily. "Convicts, yes--but not animals to be ordered
around. They're paroled to the Company in my custody. I'm responsible,
and I won't order anyone to take such risks. Your project is insane.
If your sister is alive, after three months in the Tihar no one can
help her and you probably couldn't recognize her. It would be cruel to
bring her back. If she's dead, that's the best thing that could happen
to her. Forget her. If she were my own daughter, my advice would be the
same."

Kial Nasron was shocked. "You mean you won't help?"

"I didn't say that. I'll ask for volunteers. Your father's influence
will help. If you're both determined to go, I can't stop you. In any
case, you'll need Alston. He's just returned from Tihar and he knows
more about it than anyone else. I'm waiting for his report. You can
catch him at psycho, if you like. He'll be through soon."

She moved toward the door. "If I miss him there, I'll be back," she
promised. "How'll I know him?"

"Ask anyone. Alston is well-known. But don't promise anything you can't
make good. He's the most dangerous man on Venus."

"I believe you're afraid of him," Kial Nasron said, pausing at the
door.

"I am," admitted Hailard.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cubicle was small, stifling hot in spite of air-conditioning.
Alston remembered groping to a chair and sagging into it. Armrests
came together like clamps, enforcing physical immobility. Men had been
known to go mad in the psycho-laboratories, and such precaution was
necessary. Invisible robot arms reached out to fit the plastic helmet
tightly on his head. Other clamps and electrodes gripped wrists and
ankle with inhumanly icy precision of contact.

There was always momentary impulse to resist, physically and mentally.
One strained against the manacles and tried to darken brain horizons,
both useless effort. But for a muted humming of tubes, the place was
soundless. Lightless, save for the brief swirls of flaring color on the
audio-screen. An illusion of infinite space built around him. Tension
released suddenly. Involuntarily, Alston relaxed, became dreamily aware
of the metallic voice of the machine starting its ritual of questions.

"Who are you?"

Alston responded with name and number.

"How long have you been on Venus?"

"Why were you sentenced?"

"How long does it usually take you to recuperate from the prescribed
two months of timber-cruising?"

"Can you explain why your present venture was prolonged so far beyond
the legal limit for exposure?"

Alston could and did. It was an elaborate lie, but he did not even
remember that he lied. He was conscious that something was wrong
with himself and his memories, but the false structure of his recent
adventures and emotions flowed from his subconscious without wavering.
Desperately he tried to erase all dangerous recollection from his mind.
But his conscious mind was alert, wary, attempting by plausible lies,
evasions and half-truths to defeat the purpose of the examination.

Detection was certain, sooner or later. The machine would realize the
artificial nature of his memory blocks and trace them to their source.
A battery of electronic brains has more efficiency than emotion. Even
primed as he was by a visit to the outlawed auto-hypnotic devices
hidden in the old native quarter of Castarona, there was no real chance
of deceiving the robot brains. He did not expect that, but he did hope
to confuse the issue long enough, cause enough delay, to give him his
one chance of escape. His plan was carefully worked out. Not foolproof,
but a matter of extremely delicate timing. It could work. But now....

By a supreme effort, he tried to banish all thought of escape from his
thought-patterns, tried to smudge-out the record of all recent emotion,
tried to forget everything that had happened to him in the Tihar
Forest. Especially....

At first Alston answered in words, speaking aloud from habit. Vocal
response was not required, meant nothing to the machine. The sounds
were noted and filed for future reference. Precise brain-wave pattern
measurements and analysis of physiological reactions combined into
far more exact information about him than any word or thought formed
consciously by the subject. The robot psychograph was lie detector,
encephalograph, and electronic calculator. Its prying fingers reached
into the human soul and came forth with stark truth.

Sharp, incisive, implacable, the psychograph probed with its mechanical
voice. Alston responded, his mind dulling, drifting on the vagaries
of memory stream, lulled by the drone of heating tubes, the rustling
hiss of his own breathing, the click of relays. Naked danger lay in
this state for Alston, yet he dared not brace himself against the
questioning. Synthetic memories would serve better if he yielded to his
subconscious. His voice descended to wordless mumbling, then died away
in cushioned silence.

Above all, no thought of escape, of dying or disappearance.

Alston was no different from other men except for the dogtag. He was
cast in the same mold of common humanity, but the identification dogtag
fastened on an impervium wire round his neck made the difference.

A man with the VE convict dogtag broadcasting its invisible and
inaudible signal cannot escape, cannot merely disappear. At any time,
wherever he was, its signal could be tuned in and his exact position
located. If the tag were forcibly removed by breaking the wire, almost
an impossibility with impervium, the signal automatically became an
alarm to summon patrol fliers from Castarona or Quanta City. The
escapee would be picked up within a radius of five miles from the start
of his break.

       *       *       *       *       *

The field staff of Venusian Exports were a tough, hard-bitten, reckless
crew, consisting largely of convict labor recruited from Luna Prison
or the mines of Callisto. After serving part of their terms, they were
permitted to volunteer and be paroled in custody of the company. In
most cases, it was an escape from the frying pan into the fire. One
year in the deep mines and five years on Venus in constant danger and
under intolerable living conditions, Alston had developed certain
facets of his remarkable personality at the expense of social instincts
which seemed of no further use to him.

Guilty or innocent, he had been sentenced and he was there. The
abstract justice involved no longer mattered. He was vague about
details that seemed several lifetimes ago, and six years of nursing
a cumulative hatred of mankind had made him as wary, cunning and
treacherous as any other wild beast.

The fact that his cage occupied over a million square miles of the
northern hemisphere of Venus merely irritated him with the illusion
of freedom. For a man serving an indeterminate sentence, legal
release ceases to be even a vague dream. Except by death, few convict
laborers left the company, legally or otherwise. The escape to actual
outlawry might be another illusion, but Alston had worked out a plan
which seemed a fair gamble. It hinged on three facts not known by the
company, the most important of which was discovered by him on his
recent expedition. And it began with his death, or with a reasonably
exact facsimile of it....

Always supposing that the psychograph examination did not nip his plan
in the bud. An hour or two would be the most he could hope for, but it
might be enough.

Among other fantastic mutant plants of the Tihar Forest is a
giant-sized pitcher-plant, or fly-killer. From its aromatic juices can
be distilled a drug causing artificial catalepsy. Under proper dosage,
the condition simulates death so convincingly as to defy medical
detection. A microscopic overdose results in violent convulsions or
actual death. But the real joker, as far as Alston was concerned,
lay in the brevity of the cataleptic effect. Timing would be deadly
important. His death must occur far enough from the incinerators to
guarantee recovery before his body was burned; yet close enough so that
his dogtag could be removed and sent to the central records office
before his dreadful awakening.

Afterward, it might be rough, and someone was very likely to get hurt.
But with careful timing there was an excellent chance that he would get
free minus the tag, and be well on his way to the Tihar Forest before
his deception was discovered.

A harsh burr of sound from the screen roused him. The psycho test was
over. There was no indication of findings. He slumped in the chair
while the machine clicked and hummed and blinked signals. Invisible
robot hands released the clamps and removed the helmet. Weak and
strained, Alston had to be helped to his feet and guided gently to the
door.

Outside, he blinked while his eyes adjusted to the lighted corridor.
After the gloom of the cubicle, normal illumination was blinding.

The next two hours would tell the tale. He hoped the coming interview
with Hailard would be brief. Every minute counted....


                                  II

The girl had obviously been waiting in the lobby for Alston to come
from psycho. She intercepted him purposefully, but with odd hesitation.

"You're Alston."

It was statement, not question. For a nasty moment Alston was afraid
that she belonged to his blanked-out memories. Eyes like cloudy gray
ice stopped him with a shock like recognition, and there was something
familiar about her voice. The momentary hesitation was a clue that
she was not sure of him, and everything but the eyes and voice was a
stranger. Relief made him weak.

Six years ago she would have been too young for his notice, and
nothing since then could be important. She was tall, slender but
shapely, with an angular face and creamy tan skin coloring no one
ever gets on eternally overcast Venus. Honey-blonde hair draped
bare shoulders in a long bob, and the expensive gown of turquoise
metal-cloth molded her body as if sprayed on. It was cut scant enough
to show a lot of her skin, and a length of nyloned leg which might have
stirred biological impulses in a man with less on his mind.

"People usually just point at me," he observed bitterly. "Yes, I'm
Alston."

Tourists were always startled by the apparent freedom of the convict
parolees on Venus. But this was no staring, curious tourist. She was
somebody's spoiled darling, and her manner of casual arrogance grated
on him. Rising irritation made him belligerent.

"Somebody just did, by request. I didn't want to miss you."

"All right," he snapped. "I'm one of the sights. Now that you've seen
me, go away."

She stiffened, and the turquoise gown stiffened with her, but she
deliberately ignored his rudeness. "Animals in cages don't interest
me," she observed. "I'm Kial Nasron, if the name means anything to you."

Alston explored the temporarily limited range of his memory, drew
blank. Until the hypnotic amnesia wore off, he was outclassed in
guessing games. "Should it?" he asked cautiously.

"Perhaps not. Maybe it's better if you prefer to forget everything. Is
there some place we can talk?"

Panic nagged Alston with the fleeting minutes. Just now any delay might
be fatal to his plans. If he were nasty enough she might let him go.
"Right here," he said viciously. "It's public enough so we won't run
out of conversation too quickly."

She paled and sparks flickered in her eyes, but Kial Nasron controlled
her anger and spoke swiftly. "Six years is not long enough for a man
to forget my sister Annelle. They just don't. No matter. We'll talk
about you. Director Hailard says you know more about the Tihar Forest
than anyone else. He says you can help us, if you will. And I'm not
asking favors for old times' sake. Whatever your personal feelings may
be, you've got to help us. We'll be very grateful. My father is more
important now than he was before. He can do you a lot of good, and I
know he'll do anything in his power."

Alston was cautious. "What is all this about?"

Her voice was low. "She was on her honeymoon. A passenger on the
_Krajulla_. It was a luxury excursion liner which crashed on Venus
three months ago, in case you've forgotten that too."

Memory jogged Alston. "I remember hearing of it."

"Search parties found scattered wreckage in the Tihar Forest. Landing
was impossible, for some reason I don't understand, but low-flying
helicopters examined the area thoroughly. There was no sign of life. It
looked as if everyone on board was killed since even the wreckage was
burned almost beyond recognition. Then recently some evidence has been
found that suggests a few passengers may have survived, either lost in
the wilds or prisoners of the natives. A native killed by a grull-cat
hunter was wearing some jewelry we identified as my sister's. We
believe that she's alive. Director Hailard says you know more about the
Forest than any other living man. We want you to help find my sister."

Alston grunted. "Hailard knows better than that."

"He said you'd be difficult."

       *       *       *       *       *

Alston shook his head impatiently. "I don't mean that. If he asks me
to go, I haven't much choice. But the rescue party idea is insane. If
there were survivors, they're dead now. It would take a large army to
comb the Tihar, and even then, if the natives wanted to hide something,
there are plenty of ratholes in the cities of the swamp area. You could
never find anyone, except by accident. Aside from that, parts of the
forest are deadly with radioactivity. You might not recognize your
sister if you found her."

"But you will help us?" Kial Nasron pleaded.

Alston temporized. "I'll talk to Hailard." He brushed past the girl and
reached the elevators.

A robot-attended elevator took him up. Director Hailard's office was
on one of the upper floors.

During the ascent, memory snapped back like a rubber band and flicked
him viciously in the face. He turned sick and dizzy as six years
unreeled backwards in his mind like a reversed reel of film. Memories
of Annelle and her promises, her father and his glib treachery. The
trial. His own indecision in the emergency, following orders until too
late to save his shipmates.

The past faded from his mind, assumed its relation to present
realities. For four years he had planned escape, schooling himself to
bleak patience, disciplining himself into an automaton, so that he
would execute the necessary motions blindly. Now was the time, his last
chance. The Nasrons and their problems did not exist for him any more.
Forget them. Nothing was changed. His margin was dangerously thin.
See Hailard, quickly. Get it over. His fingers toyed with the tube of
extract in his pocket. Then--

Hailard was busy on the visiphone as Alston knocked and entered. He
nodded grimly. Alston settled himself in the victim's chair and waited.
Evidently the report was not up from psycho.

The office was no different from a thousand others on Venus; decorated
in tasteless, exotic luxury, it was meant to impress the important
tourists or visiting Company officials. Alston was not impressed, but
he liked the man enthroned like an idol behind a desk of chromium
and magnificent Kru-leather. Older than he looked, the director had
been a man of action, one of the real explorers of Venus after he had
turned from the putty-soft civilization of Earth. Hailard clung to the
reins of power and enjoyed contact with his dangerous charges. Alston
half-sensed a secret sympathy for his own bleak anger.

Hailard rang off quickly and glowered at Alston. "That was Kial Nasron.
She says you claim to have forgotten all connection with her family in
the past. Is that correct?"

"That's what I told her," Alston fenced warily. "Sometimes a convict
prefers to forget his past contacts. Besides, after four months in
Tihar, a man is entitled to a convenient fit of amnesia."

Hailard classified and accepted the implied possibilities. "If you mean
that it's wiser to overlook remembered grudges, you may be right.
I'm not sure her father will want your help. Kial was away at school
when you got into trouble, and knew very little about it or you. Her
father's memory may be longer. I didn't realize any connection until I
checked your files, or I'd never have suggested you. Either way, you're
still the only man for the job. If they ask for you, what will you do?"

"You're asking me?"

"You don't have to answer. I can't order you to go. Neither can Torkeg
Nasron. I want you to know your rights, that's all."

Alston was painfully aware of passing time. In imagination he could see
the gigantic robot calculators at work in the psychograph laboratory,
adding up his brain-wave patterns and collating other evidence to a
danger-red question mark.

"I'll decide after they've asked me," he said hurriedly. "Now do you
want my report on Tihar?"

Hailard studied him shrewdly. "Forget it. Kial Nasron will be here in
a couple of minutes. I'd better tell her more about you, in case she
prefers to make other arrangements."

"Good," Alston laughed. "I need some rest. Four months in Tihar is too
long. I've felt ill. Nearly passed out in the psycho room...."

Then he was out the door and on his way to the elevators. It was now or
never. The tube was in his fingers; a quick jab with the built-in hypo
needle. His thumb pressed the plunger and the job was done. Forcing
open the elevator door, he tossed the empty tube down the echoing
shaft. A car was coming up, but it might not stop on this floor. It
was essential that his body be discovered at once. Waves of whirling
black nausea roared through him. His last conscious act was to smash an
automatic thermocouple fire alarm.

The elevator door was opening. Kial Nasron stood framed against the
interior of the car. Her mouth was open in a scream.

Alston's body crumpled suddenly. Light exploded into intolerable bright
fragments in his brain. Darkness, endless, complete....

Sharp awake, naked, covered with rough canvas, Alston lay on a slab.
Consciousness had returned suddenly. By instinct, fingers reached for
his dogtag. It had been removed. His death had been accepted.

Bewildered, he evaluated his surroundings. This was not the vault for
bodies consigned to the incinerator. Something had gone wrong.

Explanation came to him. His lips twisted in wry grimace. Of course,
all bodies were tested for radioactivity, especially those of convicts
who worked in the Tihar Forest. Prolonged exposure had caused
pathological change in his body. Enough to arouse clinical curiosity.
He had been brought to the dissecting laboratory. This was an unlooked
for development. It complicated his escape plan.

It was a large, bare room. Around him were other slabs set on trestles,
each occupied by a covered, shapeless form. At the far end, in an
alcove were curious flickering lights. Patterns of movement resolved
into figures cowled and draped in radiation-proof armor. It was easy to
guess at their tasks.

A figure moved toward him through the labyrinth of benches and slabs.
At intervals the attendant paused over an uncovered body, extending a
hand-sized radiation detector over the lump of cold flesh. After each
test, the robed and hooded attendant made a notation in his notebook
and marked the chart on each slab. In breathless strain, Alston watched
the man's progress toward him.

From the alcove came the whine of an atomic bone-saw, nagging Alston's
nerves.

The attendant was close. Alston's turn was next. Eyes closed, he lay
still, taking one deep breath and holding it till his brain neared
bursting. He sensed physical nearness. A shadow crossed his eyelids.
The attendant bent above him, extending the detector. Its buzzer
snarled angrily. Canvas rustled, was withdrawn.

Alston moved. His arm curved in one slashing arc. It was a trick blow
learned in his space academy days. One swift slash with the edge of
a hand could paralyze a man, stun him for hours. Alston caught the
falling body and rolled with it to the tiles.

In silence he dragged the unconscious man under the slab and
rapidly stripped off his robes. Swiftly, quietly, Alston donned
the radiation-proof garments. The body was hard to lift, but with a
minimum of noise and bustle, he got it to the slab, replaced the canvas
covering. For jewelled seconds, he waited to see if this disturbance
had been noted from the alcove.

Steeling himself to patience, Alston pretended to continue the task
of the attendant, working his way from slab to slab and slowly edging
toward the swing doors at the end of the loft. It was a grueling,
nerve-tightening process. At the last slab he paused, darting a quick
survey at the activities within the far alcove. Attention there seemed
to be focused upon an immense vat in which flickering lights played.
Boldly, Alston stepped through the door.

From a small landing a spiral ramp descended. It was the one visible
exit.

As he remembered, the clinical laboratories and dissecting rooms
occupied the two top floors, beneath the landing stages on the roof
of the VE Building. Apparently there was no direct outlet to the roof
from this landing. He would have to risk a descent to the office-floors
below. It was a long chance, garbed as he was, but there seemed no help
for it. His robes and cowl might disguise him but they were sure to
attract attention. He must get other clothes somehow before making his
break.

His previous escape plan dealt with the underground tunnels connecting
the various buildings. Now a new plan must be made up as he went along,
grasping whatever opportunity arose. Probably the best trick would be
to reach the roof-landings by elevator and try to steal a 'copter.

Down the ramp he went, abandoning stealth. The first landing he reached
was empty, but seemed to open into laboratory rooms. Down again. The
ramp opened into a corridor leading to a central landing. Alston tried
to remember if Hailard's office were on the floor just under the lofts.
At any rate, there were elevators here.

Pressing a stud, he waited for the whine of the car. One was ascending,
but he could not guess how close it was.

Waiting, he pressed close against the wall, out of vision range of the
opening door. A weapon would be a help, but he might as well wish for
the moon.

A hiss of releasing air announced the elevator cage. Silently the door
opened, and a humanoid robot emerged. Blank but sensitive metallic eyes
fixed on Alston.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly alarms rang through the echoing corridors. A blinker red
signal flashed in the cage, its reflection a splash of blood on
the polished frame. The robot hesitated, reaching for the portable
transmitter to report below for instructions. Alston barked quick
command. Half-turned, the robot touched the transmitter. Alston struck.

His fist crashed into the face plate, numbing his arms to the elbow.
A jingle of small mechanical parts rained inside the robot, but the
automaton caught at the man. Man and machine fell in a loud tangle,
locked in savage, struggling embrace. Alston broke free and smashed
in the face plate with a series of blows. His fingers clawed at
intricacies of wiring inside. Acrid smoke and a smell of scorched
insulation spiralled forth. The robot sprawled in weirdly human
attitude of death.

No use now to descend. Hope of bypassing the guarded lower floors to
the tunnels must be abandoned. And unarmed, he could not hope to get
past the guards on the roof-landings. The alarm was out.

Inside the cage, he jammed the controls on nonstop descent and sprang
back to the landing. Forcing shut the safety door released the car for
a shrieking express drop. Uncontrolled, it would crash into fearful
wreckage at the tunnel levels.

It would confuse the search momentarily while the debris was examined
for his body.

He looked quickly around the landing, found a tablet numbering the
rooms and giving directions. He was on the floor of Hailard's office.
It gave him an idea. Perhaps he could hold the director as hostage for
his escape. At least it would be no worse than his present predicament.
Hailard's office would be the last place they would expect him.

He hurried down the corridor.

Hailard's door was closed. Alston flung it open and leaped inside. Kial
Nasron and the director faced each other across the desk. Both faces
froze, staring at the intrusion. Hailard's hand dipped toward an open
drawer.

In tigerish movement, Alston scooped girl and chair from the floor and
flung them over the desk into Hailard's lap. The heat gun flamed at
random, melting a section of plastic wall. Alston sprang, went over the
desk top into a belly-slide. All three of them crashed in a squirming
heap on the floor.

Alston wrenched free first and came up with the heat gun in his hand.
Pale and furious, Kial Nasron writhed back to the wall, glaring at the
man. Hailard sat up, staring in dazed fixation at the pointing gun.

"It won't do you any good, Alston," he said. "Security police are
searching the building."

"We'll see about that," Alston grinned at the girl. "Mr. Hailard and I
are exchanging clothes."

After the exchange, Alston smashed the visiphone and inter-office
communicator.

"The lady is leaving with me," he warned the director. "So use
judgment. If anything happens to me, it happens to her. If anyone gets
in my way, I'll blast through. Is that clear?"

Hailard nodded. "Clear to me. Maybe not to the guards on the roof."

Alston's face lighted savagely. "You can come along and explain it to
them."

Herding his prisoners before him, Alston marched to the
elevator-landing. Hailard pressed the stud for the surviving cage. The
car stopped, its door slid open.

Alston gestured toward the transmitter. "Give them your orders and make
it good."

Hailard shrugged....


                                  III

Five hours and approximately 1,800 airline miles from Quanta City,
Alston switched back from rocket power to the atomic motors. Not daring
to use radar for navigation or altitude soundings, he was not certain
exactly where he was. Climbing swiftly into the murk, he flew blindly
by dead reckoning, and most of the journey was accomplished in or above
the miles-deep canopy of dust and vapor which eternally shrouds Venus
from all view of other worlds.

On the silver, skimming over the limitless expanse of cloud banks,
rainbow-tinted with reflected light, the ship had a view of
breath-taking extent. They were somewhere over the Tihar Forest, he
knew, and within striking distance of his destination. But until he
descended below the obscurity of unbroken mist-seas, the exact position
was guesswork. Blades flailing in the thin, stratospheric air, the
'copter slanted downward, settling swiftly. It hovered for seconds
above a roil surface of blinding brilliance, then churning grayness
enveloped them, limiting vision to a few yards radius.

Temptation to use the sounding device was overwhelming, but he knew
that hundreds of spotters were tuning detectors eagerly, hoping
for just such a lapse, to triangulate his position. With muttered
profanity, he restrained the impulse.

Sparing a moment from peering anxiously below, he eyed Kial Nasron
resentfully.

"You should have 'chuted down when I gave you the chance," he told her
morosely. "It was a better risk than this."

"I wanted to come," she replied, with a toss of head. "This is the
Tihar Forest, isn't it?"

He grinned. "I think so. We'll know in a few minutes if the ceiling is
high enough to give me a chance to pull this crate out of the fall. If
not, I don't think we'll care."

"I'm an easy pick-up, but hard to shake. Since we're landing, you might
untie my hands."

"And have you get foolish notions of grabbing the controls?"

"What good would that do me? I can't fly a 'copter."

Alston stared through the viewports. The ship appeared to be descending
a well of infinite depth with featureless gray walls in which flickered
eery light.

"You're a bigger fool than I thought," he admitted. "I had a vague idea
of turning you loose with the ship, later on, after I'd smashed the
radar and wireless. How d'you expect to get back?"

"We'll figure that out when we come to it," the girl said confidently.
"Maybe we can still make a deal. If we find my sister and take us both
back, you'll have something to bargain with. My father will make them
meet any terms you say."

Alston disillusioned her brutally. "Don't count on it, sister. I'm
on a one-way ticket. The penalty for attempted escape is death, in
the disintegrators. I've added kidnapping, stealing a ship, and some
assorted violence to my record. The least I'd get is life in the deep
mines, and I'd prefer the disintegrators to that. You'll have to find
yourself another hero."

Kial Nasron fell silent while Alston returned his attention to the
controls. Dark rifts appeared in the grayness, became restless mobile
patterns, like smoke swirling in a glass. The rotating blades overhead
caught denser air and set up curious disturbance areas in the mist.
Except for the lessened gravity, like the first moments in a rapidly
descending elevator, there was no sense of motion at all. The ship
might have been suspended in a dim, mist-shrouded pocket of space.

Tense at the controls, Alston did not turn as she spoke again.

"Perhaps, then, I can make contact with the searching parties, and
bargain with them. You don't know my father's influence. He can protect
you."

Alston grunted savagely. "No, thanks. I've had dealings with your
father. Maybe you don't remember. You were just a kid, away at school
on Earth. He helped railroad me. Figured I was not good enough for
Annelle, and that was one way to be rid of me. As if I had a chance,
anyhow. That was the joke. They called it sabotage, when the charge
should have been negligence under extenuating circumstances. Annelle
stood by and let him do it."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was conscious of her voice, but it sounded distant, unreal.

"Then you did remember. I didn't know much about it. You were a
forbidden topic in the house. But you're wrong about Annelle. She cried
a lot before she forgot, and even Father talked of having the case
re-opened. Nothing came of it. I supposed you were guilty."

"I was. There was a choice of following orders or saving the ship. I
waited too long to decide. Men died. They were my friends. That was
important, the rest isn't. You're welcome to both your father and your
sister. I could even enjoy your predicament if I cared. But I'm past
that, long ago. None of you even exist to me."

"Then you won't mind if I try to reach the searching parties? They
could take me back--"

He laughed grimly. "And have you lead them to me? I'd be a fool to
trust you. Besides, none of them will get this far. None on the
surface. And the air patrols can't land. You're stuck with me, sister.
And don't expect any favors. I'm not in the mood."

Dark curtains parted suddenly below.

Immensity of somber desolation spread in all directions. The scene
was savage, monstrous, rich in vegetation, fitfully lighted by
distant volcanic flares. Jungle had stormed and over-run the visible
countryside. Like a vast green map it unrolled below them. Directly
beneath the plunging 'copter, and perilously close at hand, was a
jagged upthrust of bare rock, miles-high, towering almost into the gray
ceiling of mist.

Frantically, Alston worked at the controls. Airscrews whined, shrilled,
blasted. The muted thunder of atomic engines rose into deafening
crescendo. The blades overhead vibrated in frenzy of rotation.

The 'copter pulled from its steep fall, jerked forward like a startled
animal, then hesitated. One of the blades grazed the high pinnacle of
rock with a jarring crash. The ship rebounded, poised like a dancer,
then fell away, floundering in a crazy rhythm.

Fighting the wheel and stick, Alston was wrenched from his strapped
pilot-seat and wedged violently among the control bars.

The damaged blade broke loose and beat itself to exploding tatters
on the fuselage cabin. Gyrating, plunging end over end, the ship was
tearing itself to pieces. Extricating himself, the man shut off the
motors and switched to rocket power. Jets flamed and sputtered. Ground,
like a solid green wall, rose up toward the stricken ship. Thundering
jets painted a crazy pattern of brilliant crimson.

Righting the ship, Alston tried vainly to jettison the blades, but they
were lodged fast in the keys. Banshee wail of tortured brace wires rose
shrill and thin. In a sickening glide, the ship struck. By instinct,
Alston cut the power. Then, darkness....

Green, roaring avalanches engulfed the hurtling ship, wiped away the
landing gear. Upper branches grasped at the breaking fuselage, ground
at its metal plates with tearing force. Twice it broke clear, bounded
high in the air, and struck again. In a high tangle of treetops, it
lodged for seconds, then toppled and fell a sheer hundred feet before
coming to rest in a snarled webbing of vines and main limbs. Like a
broken moth, twitching and swaying, it hung there.

A band of natives found the wreckage. Like agile monkeys they swarmed
up the trees, found the occupants still unconscious, and lowered them
gently to the forest floor. The native leader solved this problem
with primitive directness. Taking a large mouthful of water from his
snakeskin canteen, he blew hard, spraying Alston's face liberally, then
repeating the process with the girl.

Water showering Alston jerked him instantly awake. Dazed and bruised,
he raised himself on one elbow and looked about. It was impossible that
he had survived the crash, but he seemed painfully alive. He sat up,
blinking.

A group of fox-headed natives surrounded him, their large ears flapping
excitedly. They waved spears and danced, chirping noisily, faceted eyes
on stalks protruding from their foreheads writhing and flickering with
curiosity and interest. Alston spoke to them in their own language of
weird, chirping monosyllables.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kial Nasron was rousing. She showed less signs of battering than he
did, but evidently her return to consciousness was not an unmixed
blessing. Her cultured voice made unladylike comments.

Suddenly aware of the natives, Kial leaped to her feet and started
running like a frightened _yarnab_. The native leader hurled a
spear-shaft between her legs and brought her down heavily. His
followers carried her back.

"What will they do to us?" she wailed, shuddering as she looked at the
half-human creatures.

"Shut up," he ordered. "These are friends."

He addressed the leader and the chirping discussion went on. Partially
reassured, the girl examined the eery beings with curiosity which they
openly returned, picking at her garments, touching her skin, laughing
among themselves and making comments which she could not understand.

Vaguely manlike in form, the inhabitants of Tihar were spindly and
barrel-chested, with long, multiple-jointed limbs. Their slate gray
skin, covered with fine golden down, blended easily with the ocher moss
of the forest.

"Something is wrong," Alston told her finally. "These people are badly
frightened. They're leaving the forest and heading west into unknown
country. I don't understand it, and Tuluk is vague about the actual
danger. He's warning us to leave at once. And Tuluk doesn't scare
easily, so it must be something out of the ordinary."

The leader glanced apprehensively about as he talked, his voice rising
and falling in the birdlike cadences of his speech. Alston gestured
toward the wrecked ship, then the girl, shook his head in negation, and
shrugged eloquently.

Gesticulating, chirping wildly, the native chief rounded up his
followers and melted swiftly into the shadowed gloom of the forest.

"What was that all about?" asked Kial uneasily.

Alston snorted. "I still don't know. I explained that we could not go
in the ship. He wanted us to come with him. I told him that was equally
impossible, that you wouldn't last ten miles the way they travel.
Don't worry about it. There's danger, but we knew that. Besides, these
natives don't always make sense. They've different mental processes
from ours. Not quite human. What scared them might mean nothing to us.
Volcano, earthquake, food shortage. They're superstitious, too. Maybe a
god growled at them."

"What are we going to do?"

Alston grinned. "Hole up. I know where I am now. I hoped to get guide
service, but we won't need it. Tuluk told me how to get where we're
going. I spotted the place a while back on one of my survey trips.
Seems like a good place to hide for a while. I have a cache of supplies
there. Three hours of rough going, though. One hour, Tuluk said, but
that means three for us. Messy job, pawing through this muck."

Alston climbed into the trees and rummaged in the shattered 'copter
for usable equipment. His total find amounted to a pair of radilume
flashbeams, some tablets of food concentrate, water in a self-cooling
canteen and his heat gun. He scrambled back to the ground and struck
out boldly through the jungle.

It was Kial Nasron's first experience of Venusian forest. She wondered
how Alston could keep his directions at all. To her it was a vast
nightmare, staggering, impressive, but without order or definite form.
Here was nothing of the cultivated parklands of Earth. Titanic trees
towered upward and lost themselves in gloom, their knotted trunks like
the columns of a giant's temple. Overhead was a blank mass of foliage
so dense that practically no light filtered down from the uneasy gray
glare of sky.

Colossal tree-ferns and gigantic mushrooms gave the place a goblin
aspect, like the background of some sinister fairy-tale, and underfoot
the ground moved queasily as if she trod upon the crust of quagmire.
Coarse, thorny scrub and a moldering confusion of rotting tree trunks
blocked the aisles, and higher up interwoven vines and trailing
beards of moss knotted together the dense growth of trees in complex
tapestries of shadow. Footing was treacherous, although a luminosity
hovered above the sinks of decaying vegetation, and by this tricky
light, they made frequent detours to avoid bogholes and the bubbling
sinks of steaming-hot water. The air was thick, moist and nauseous with
the foulness of gas rising from the layers of mold. Each step was an
adventure.

After two hours of tramping and stumbling through choked aisles of
sodden jungle, Kial Nasron was out on her feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fortunately, they had reached higher ground. Outcroppings of
lichen-crusted rock broke the morass of soft, unsteady ground, and she
fell less often. Alston paid no heed to her or her difficulties. He
marched steadily on, and, gasping and perspiration-soaked, she made
shift to keep up. A terror of being abandoned in the awesome wilderness
urged her faltering muscles.

They climbed a rise and came out on a flat, shelving rock at the top of
a watershed.

On the far side, the ledge overlooked a circular depression miles in
extent. Here, Alston halted. The strength went out of Kial, and she
collapsed weakly on the bare rock. Alston gave her food and water and
seemed bitterly amused by her plight.

"We're almost there," he said. "Better get used to it. We're home."

On the near side, the hollow was rimmed by sheer cliffs, across its
expanse, perhaps fifty miles away, was a chain of high, smoking
volcanoes, their red glare reflected from the overcast, drenching the
plain with hellish light. Hundreds of feet below was the pit floor,
fairly level and carpeted with flowing grass or the ocherous moss.

Before them, sloping from a wedge-like salient of the precipice, a
stone-flagged pathway lay straight across the plain toward the city!

At first, in the crimson splendor, it seemed less like a man-made
fabric than some curious natural formation rising from the rust-tinted
grasslands. In shape it was like a tangle of oddly regular hills and
the vegetation swarming over it added to the illusion. But a closer
look showed too much geometry for accidental weathering.

Gradually the outlines assumed form. City-size, it seemed to be the
complex ramifications of a single building, terraced, overgrown with a
thick matting of vines until the place resembled a hanging garden.

Kial Nasron suppressed a shiver, for there was an utterly alien quality
about the megalithic structure that both depressed and frightened
her. Over both city and hollow rose an aura of something dreadful and
unholy, as if the ghosts of some ancient dwellers brooded in forgotten
solitudes within.

As they descended the rough pathway and moved along the stone flagging
toward the abandoned megalopolis, both man and girl were conscious
of a quiver which ran through ground and air. Stopping, Alston knelt
and placed a hand flat on the ground. Even through the thick moss, a
vibration was perceptible, and something like a weak electric shock ran
up his arm, numbing wrist, elbow and the shoulder joint. Now he was
aware of a muted throbbing, like the beat of a heavy, steady pulse.

Nearer the city, ground tremors were stronger, and his ears caught
a clearly audible echo from the vibrating air. Had he been wrong in
believing the city was deserted? On the previous visit he had seen
nothing nor felt any awareness of an alien presence.

Before them, the path shone in the rubrous light, and the city wall
rose like a sheer cliff, casting a black shadow toward them like a
reaching hand.

Now the ruin seemed more complete than before, and a vanguard of the
forest reached out a dark arm, encircling the edifice.

"Looks as if the previous tenants had been careless with the fixtures,"
Kial Nasron said in mock bravado. "At least they did not forget the red
carpet."

"Quiet neighborhood," Alston echoed her thought. Suddenly he knew what
was different.

The silence. This time there was no hum of insect life, no rustling
as the wind moved through the grass. No sense of movement as the wild
things prowled at will within the dark labyrinths of the ancient city.
There was silence, complete, profound, blanketing and smothering every
sound save one, the muted throbbing.

Penetrating deeply into the shadow, they stood at last before a tall
gateway. As they hesitated, a long green snake of vine-creeper writhed
down from the stone frame, darting, coiling, lashing at them like a
living serpent.

Alston struck at it, then whipped out the heat gun and pressed the
stud. A pencil beam of dazzling brilliance leaped out. With a scorched
stench the tentacle withdrew, squirming hideously.

"Watch those things," he warned Kial Nasron. "Some of them are
dangerous. Their poison is a swift corrosive."

Inside the gateway was both sound and movement. A convulsive stirring
ran along the vine-covered walls, and a sound between a hiss and a
soft rustling struck their ears. Here, too, the pulsing throb was
more pronounced. It was as if the plant-things of the deep jungle had
over-run and conquered the city, turning it to some evil purpose of
their own. The city might be dead, but the forest was alive, watching,
waiting. Every wall and column was encrusted with dark masses of
greenery, every avenue an alley garlanded with vines and moss. Ugly,
twisting fungi and monstrous tree-ferns grew from the broken pavement.
Sinister ripples of movement coursed the man and girl. The city reeked
with fear.


                                  IV

Security Police turned Hailard's fast cruiser back at the last barrier
before the Tihar Forest--the Holy Mountains. The patrols had failed to
head off the fugitive Alston before he had reached the forest, and the
effort had now become a complex operation of combing the Tihar area in
scout planes in the faint hope of discovering the missing 'copter and
its occupants. Therefore, after putting the machinery in readiness for
the job ahead, Hailard had awaited the arrival of Torkeg Nasron before
taking an active part in the search.

Responding to the Security Patrol signals, he leapt to the visiphone
transmitter and angrily demanded explanations. A stormy interview with
Nasron had done nothing for his patience.

"Top priority," Hailard shouted into the transmitter, heedless of
amplifiers.

"All priorities are cancelled," an imperturbable junior officer told
him coldly. "General Emergency. Contact Central Security in Castarona
for instructions. At once. That is all."

Hailard dialed the Castarona wavelength.

A thin, recorded voice was broadcasting, half-newscast, half-official
pronouncement. As soon as the message was finished, it was repeated for
the benefit of new listeners.

"--Believed that an unheard-of mutation has taken place on a large
scale. No precedent. Action will be taken as soon as the full extent
and nature of this fantastic development can be determined. The
disturbance is of a nature both electromagnetic and atomic, and seems
to be centered in the swampy districts of the extreme western range of
the Tihar Forest, approximately 1,300 miles from Castarona. Little is
known of this area, and the few explorations which have been attempted
in the past met with disaster.

"Landings will be difficult, and surface penetration is not to be
considered. However, suicide squads are now being recruited among the
convict laborers most familiar with conditions in the Tihar Forest with
full pardon as reward, and an expedition will be launched for the
purpose of mapping and reconnoitering the locale. If possible, landings
are to be made and the menace run to earth, although not much is hoped
for in this line since the terrain is swampy and practically impassable
on foot. Bulletins will be issued as further material becomes available.

"Repeat--

"General alarm! Warning, do not enter the Tihar Forest area for any
reason.

"Within the past two months a startling change has been taking place in
the Tihar vegetation. It was noted weeks ago in the outer trading posts
and most advanced weather stations. Experts sent to the spot have made
their reports, and the story can now be told.

"Three small villages and one sizable town have been utterly destroyed.
Refugees have begun to drift in with tales of massacre and destruction.
Piecing together their stories, and giving a new consideration to the
reports by plant experts, we can quickly understand what has happened.
A pattern becomes apparent.

"It is general knowledge that the Tihar Forest is unique, even on
Venus. Its plant life is all mutant and practically unclassified.
This mutant vegetation, isolated as it is and not under observation
by qualified scientists, continued its variant development. Now, the
whole forest, with all its manifold life-forms, has suddenly become
symbiotic. Plants, animals, and possibly other life-forms totally
unfamiliar to us, are now united in one communal, interdependent life.
The forest is functioning as a gigantic organism with each of its
previous entities as a single shell.

"Not only is this gigantic organism a functioning entity, but it is
intelligent, malignant, ambitious. We must not fall into the pitfall of
considering this monstrous entity merely a gigantic plant or community.
There is much more behind such a development than a mere changed
relationship between the life entities involved. The forest has come to
life, become a sentient, functioning, thinking, mobile monster.

"It is on the move, conquering, killing, destroying everything that
stands in its way. Plants that were earth-bound by complicated
root-systems are developing new forms and members, and becoming
mobile. The larger forms, such as the ancient trees, in which such
rapid evolution is impossible, are functioning as a supply house for
the more quickly adaptable forms. The whole being becomes an army,
backed by an alert, efficient industry, converting the chemical and
nuclear treasure-house of Tihar into a formidable war machine.

"This is a challenge which may not be denied. We must revise our whole
approach to the colonization and re-civilizing of Venus, even our
habits of thought. Plants, hitherto the docile or helpless servants of
mankind, have become a deadly enemy and a threat to our very survival
as a dominant life-form. Clouds of spores descended on the unsuspecting
inhabitants with an effect similar to that of poison gas. A grull-cat
hunter gives an account of being pursued by a variety of plants and
wild animals, acting in concert as if directed by a master brain.

"This is just a sample. More will come. If the mutation continues and
spreads, even our domesticated plants and animals may turn and rend us
like a pack of wolves. We are living on borrowed time, and some kind of
decisive action must be taken.

"Recent recordings taken by various weather stations indicate
emanations of some unusual force within the forest as if power were
being generated on a large scale. We now believe that these readings
and the mutations are related. Authorities admit that it is believed--"

Hailard clicked off the switch, and gave orders to change the course
to Castarona. His eyes met those of Torkeg Nasron and locked. Armored
silence sprang between them. Nasron broke it.

"Does this mean that you are abandoning the attempt to rescue my
daughter from this madman?"

Hailard shook his head sadly. "There is nothing we can do at the
moment. We can accompany the suicide squads, perhaps learn something.
From the broadcast, I surmise that Kial is dead. And Alston, too."

"You said the same thing about Annelle. We have reason...."

Hailard interrupted. "This situation is different. Worse. Annelle
was living on borrowed time, even if she survived the wreck of the
_Krajulla_. I feel much worse about Kial. I liked her. For that
matter, Alston too. Rotten bad luck that he chose such a time for his
break, and the girl got in his way. I doubt if he'd have harmed her
deliberately. The man was desperate, bitter, even crazy angry, but he's
no natural killer. It was just his way of hitting back at you. Making
you sweat a little."

Torkeg Nasron smiled sardonically and sadly, musing to himself that
no man ever beats the game. The price of a six-year-old treachery had
finally caught up with him and he was paying in the biggest coin he
owned.

In Castarona, three fast VE survey ships were being hastily armed.
Files of convict volunteers ceased work to watch a squadron of six
battleships lift from their cradles and head for the remote fastnesses
of the Tihar in ragged, irregular formation. Within minutes, a
flight of G-class rocket scouts blasted off to follow the cumbersome
battlewagons.

Signals shrilled. Convicts who had volunteered for the suicide squads
went aboard and waited. Blinker lights winked on and off in color
codes. At the last moment, Hailard and Nasron climbed into the pilot's
quarters, with new bulletins and final calculations from the detectors
locating the trouble center. It should not take long for the suicide
command to overtake and pass the heavily armored military aircraft.
Within two hours, three at the most if headwinds were strong, or if
storms were encountered over the forest, the ships should reach the
target area.

Field sirens moaned and the jets let go with a staggered roar.

       *       *       *       *       *

Deep within the city, before an oval pierced through an immense wall of
squared and jointed megaliths, Alston paused. Huddled close beside him,
like a dog or a terrified child, the girl drew comfort from the man's
physical nearness.

Kial Nasron could not afterwards remember how they had come to the
place. There was confused impression of moving through a labyrinth
of endless, winding, dark avenues. The ruddy glare made but a feeble
glimmering upon monstrous colonnades or touched with vague mystery the
hideous reliefs carved upon titanic walls. Above, towered the bulking
mass of a shattered citadel. On either hand, sheer as the cliffsides
of a narrow canyon, walls rose in terraced setbacks to the gloomy arch
of sky. Everywhere was mute, colossal evidence of alien evolutions, and
everywhere the rank, bloated growth of unnatural vegetation.

Guarding the portal were gigantic effigies in stone of gods vanished
and forgotten when the universe was young. From outside, nothing of the
building's interior could be made out, for a screen of dense shadow
blocked the oval opening. Kial hung back, shivering, as Alston strode
to the doorway.

"Wait here if you like," he said. "At least till I look around inside.
There have been changes since I was last here. All this growth is
new...."

Panic shrilled through her as she glanced about at the grotesque
shadow-shapes.

"I'll go with you," she said quickly. "I'm afraid to stay out here
alone."

Alston nodded, with a surge of rough sympathy. "Suit yourself. But
stick close in case of trouble. We may be just imagining things."

Her voice was hollow and awoke strange echoings among the dry,
murmurous rustling of the vines. "How dared you ever come here before,
alone? There is something dreadful...."

"It was different, then."

Alston plunged boldly into the shadow, the girl following reluctantly.

Inside, the air was warm, humid, stifling, full of the fetid odors
of a hothouse. Silence stunned the ears. Even the restless stirring
sounds of the vines faltered and died away. There was complete absence
of sound as different from ordinary stillness as death is from life.
Something tangible was gone from the very air. Withdrawn. Breathless,
waiting hush, lifeless as a shroud, pervaded the somber interior.

There was light of an eery sort, a flickering play of shadows shot
with pearly ghosts, lambent as moonflames, which hung in thick layers
like drifting smoke or moved in shifting planes like faintly glowing
draperies.

Slowly their eyes became accustomed to the dimness and they perceived
the dimensions of the place. It was a vast circular space, like some
tremendous hall that might have been a temple, above soared vague
immensities of a vaulted dome, and the paved floor was strewn with the
rubble of titanic collapse. Before them, in terraced crescents, like a
giant's staircase crumbling into ruin, the flooring fell away into a
central depression.

Here were rank on rank of noxious, ugly tree-growths, jutting from
displaced paving blocks--each plant a gnarly, jointed trunk crowned
with clusters of motionless tentacles. Ranged about the terraces, they
parodied the attitudes of worshippers within some unholy temple. Each
massive wall was thickly tapestried in matted hangings of the ophidian
vines, but here their unceasing undulations were stilled, frozen into
rigid immobility.

Hovering about the central depression was a zone of denser shadow,
obscuring and distorting vision. What light existed in this core of
darkness was troubled, uncertain. The spot attracted Alston's interest,
but he could see nothing clearly.

In the deathlike hush, their footsteps made no whisper of sound and
the man and girl descended the broken terraces among moving planes of
light and shadow to the rim of darkness. Down the ruinous steps, their
progress was sluggish as if they drifted bodiless in some exasperating
dream fabric.

There came a flurry of disturbance in the shadowy zone, a wan, uneasy
flickering glow, as if light flares struggled through thick, resisting
slabs of murky crystal. Steadily it grew, quickening, mounting, flaming
into raw emerald brilliance. Taller it soared, spreading, dispersing
the murk, beating back the fanes of darkness, revealing the temple
in all its monstrous size, its splendor, and its crumbling ruin.
Revealing--

_The Pit!_

       *       *       *       *       *

At the heart of the place, sunk into the pave, was a deep round pit,
brimming with fiery liquescence. It swam with light, with color and
movement, boiling like a wizard's cauldron. The disturbed surface
heaved and frothed, churned, rose and fell in slow rhythmic pulsing.
Above it hovered myriad tongues of darting argent flame. From it
light foamed upward, showers of luminous bubbles rose and danced and
shattered in clouds of radiance as diffuse as a mist of pearls.

Here was the source of that strange energy, that throbbing force which
vibrated through the ground and air outside, for as the substance of
the pit rose and fell in its rhythmic cycle, so did the sound and
vibration swell and diminish, so did the light flare and fade.

From a curb of carved and figured stone a sculptured ramp swept up and
out and down in graceful arch onto an island of black rock set within
the pit. Harshly outlined, its detailed fretwork sharp and clear, the
island rose solidly from the pool of glittering light.

But on the island was sheer madness. From a pedestal block of faceted
stone thrust upward two mighty curved horns of fluted jade resembling
the frames of an ancient lyre. Thirty feet in the air they soared,
and pendant between them was a sparkling veil, gossamer as the finest
spider-silk, dusted with incandescent moonfire. Meshed in this sheer
fabric, prisoned like a silvery moth caught upon a great spiderweb, was
a figure of terrible beauty.

Seething in witchflames, netted in a tumult of frosted lightnings,
was the white, graceful body of a woman. Naked in body and stripped
of soul, limbs and trunk rigid, her figure was tortured into the
attitude of a hieratic symbol. The face was bowed but calm, blending
sinister serenity with an expression of impassive anguish. Staring, the
eyes were chill with some unholy suspension between death and life.
Soft glory of hair flowed upward to mingle inextricably in the weave
of silvered veiling, and the slender arms stretched up and outward,
cruciform, as if to suggest a hideous sacrifice. A beautiful soulless
nympthon!

"Annelle!"

He cried aloud, stared in wildest frenzy, shouted her name, shook his
fist in impotent fury at the dead gods set about in their sculptured
niches.

Light gathered in awesome brilliance on the ledge about the pit,
thickening like a solid substance, so that the pit, the island, with
its great curving horns, and the prisoner upon the draping silvery
veil seemed frozen within glittering crystal. The scene was fantastic
nightmare ensorcelled into hideous permanence.

One sharp glimpse, then scurrying shadows flowed upward from the pool,
dim, shapeless beings in mad conflict with the flooding splendors of
alien quicksilver.

Alston was barely conscious of Kial's screaming. Tranced, he stumbled
down the remaining steps to the ledge. He was dimly aware of Kial's
voice, her hands clawing at him, restraining. Then he was beside
the pit, standing, staring up the ramp. In his arms was a limp
body--Kial's. A faintly glowing nimbus outlined her features, congealed
them into an echo of that same unearthly coldness, that same calm
horror and impassive anguish of the other's.

Something had flowed from her, withdrawn, and the shell that remained
was not Kial. Alive, she had meant nothing to him, but dead, or worse,
she became a symbol of the tortured loneliness and frustration of his
life.

She was dead. This thing in his arms was no more Kial than that other
being was--

Annelle! White agony of memories burned through his veins, became a
madness. His sense of double loss was unbearable. He dropped the limp
thing in his arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

The temple stirred, became suddenly sensible of his human presence.
Whispered murmurings rose in volume, became a tide of slithering sound.
The ranks of greenery moved toward him.

Unheeding, Alston staggered to the soaring ramp. Ahead, he sensed
vaguely the figure of radiance, rags of stolen moonsilver flowing from
it. Caught by some unholy lure, he forced a way toward it, moving
slowly, sluggishly as if the very air grew dense and sought to impede
him.

At the pedestal, knees buckled under him. His knees scraped jagged
stone. He floundered, recovered, stared upward, reaching.

Infernal glory lit the face. Nearer, he could see that it bore less
resemblance to humanity than to the half-open, convoluted petals of a
strange flower. Within its muted planes were the soft, chill delicacies
of an orchid, the flushed, still colors of a rose in moonlight. About
her hovered a funereal fragrance, sickeningly sweet, like the perfume
of no blossom of Earth or Mars.

Flowerlike, she stirred, eyelids twitched and lifted, petal-white lips
moved.

In dread miracle, she spoke. Articulation was difficult and the sound
seemed to come from immense distances. The tones were soulless, a
rippling sibilance of sounds and half-accented syllables, the words
a meaningless babel upon his ears. She spoke in whispers, softly
murmuring, ecstatic....

In his brain images formed, alien, untranslatable.

He saw the ancient city at the height of its power. Streets thronged
with a strange people, in form the product of a variant evolution. This
was their city, their temple. Here they housed a god-thing, slimy,
monstrous, a being of their own creation, blending within itself
something of both protoplasmic matter and living energy. Here in the
temple it lived and was worshipped by strange rites and awful sacrifice.

Then came a whirlwind of war. The race of creators and worshippers
vanished, destroyed with their enemies when the atomic weapons of
both races burst the bounds, sweeping in fiery wrath over seas and
continents until the planet lay bare and smoldering. The race died, but
their god-thing lived.

Deep within the sacred fountain of its temple, the slime-being lay
dormant. But the ravening atomic fires had touched off a vein of almost
pure uranium beneath the city. Something of that atomic fire still
lingered, spreading slowly through the mass, reacting like a slow
pile, half-alive, partially radioactive. Through the ages, the element
fissioned, emitting low-degree heat and some radiant energy. In its pit
of slow incubation, the god-thing developed, wakened to new life, grew
in strength and diabolical intelligence.

In time it wearied of passive existence, hungered after more power and
freedom of movement. Bursting its bonds, it rose into the well, whence
it hurled forth impulses, urgent, hypnotic, angry and summoning. With
promises and deceits it lured the forest, called to itself the more
mobile plants, enslaved the green living things.

Of itself, it gave to them new strength and intelligence, made of them
more mobile beings. It roused them to fantastic development and stirred
to life their latent dreams of green conquest. By complex symbiosis, it
bound them to itself, made willing servants and worshippers of them.
The forest had become a vast, single, interdependent community.

The woman-thing--its voice--had strayed within the precincts of
its dread power. She, also, had been lured, overpowered, enslaved.
Partially absorbed by the god-being, wholly dependent, the woman had
become a nympthon, a temple handmaiden, little more than a decoration,
existing solely by its whim.

The voice died away. Unconscious of sound, Alston sensed the images
fading from his mind.

Standing boldly on the pedestal, Alston reached upward to tear and
strike at the horror on the veil. Shrieking, he assailed the monstrous
thing which was neither plant nor woman, alternating words and blows.
Hate seethed in his brain, hate and pain and grief. He cried out and
hurled himself savagely, lusting to destroy.

It was the last thing he remembered clearly. From the depths below came
a throb of fearful power. The pool churned. Lightnings raved about the
suspended veil, the netted figure. The woman-thing writhed piteously in
the tumult of energy. Alston's upreaching arms carried the current to
his body. The shock stunned, paralyzed.

Then came momentary impression of vegetation surging toward him in dark
billows. Hellish tendrils dragged him down. Great, leathery leaves
enfolded him, lifting his numbed body high. He was hurled bodily
across the shimmering well, caught up again and juggled with heedless
violence. Lashing, steely tentacles played with him and passed him
swiftly through dim spaces. Flesh cringed from the cloying contact of
the vines. Battered, nauseated, half-unconscious, he felt the touch of
abysmal horror.

Then, contemptuously, he was flung in a grotesque sprawl of arms and
legs, spurned through the gateway of the outer wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside the city, lines of battle were drawn up across the valley. On
one side, squads of the convict volunteers held back green waves of
plant-life with batteries of flame-throwers, heat rays, grenades and
poison gas bombs. Ranged against them were the unlimited numbers of the
forest folk, plants and animals alike thrusting in a dark salient from
the thickly grown slopes. Near the city was a clear space, but ragged
knots of combatants were locked in deadly struggle, contending for the
approach.

Flame-throwers bit deep indentations in the massed plant-things,
and an acrid stench of charred greenery rose in choking clouds. The
green armies struck back viciously with flights of venomed thorns
and a barrage of spore-cases which burst with startling force and
showered the humans with corrosive dust. It was deadlock, a determined,
murderous see-saw with advantage to neither.

A scouting party brought Alston to the ships.

"We knew that you and Kial Nasron were inside the city," Hailard said
grimly. "A native chieftain, Tuluk, told us how you came here. We've
delayed flattening the city with atomics in the faint hope you might
come out alive."

His gesture indicated the circling warships overhead, which
occasionally swooped down to take a hand in the conflict with sticks of
dropped bombs.

"How did you dare land your ships here?" Alston asked. "From the air
this plain looks like a swamp, the city just a strangely shaped hill."

"Convicts dropped first, by parachute. They signalled to come in."

Nasron clutched desperately at Alston. "Kial?" he queried hopelessly.

"She's still in there."

"Alive?"

"I don't know. Unconscious or dead. But you can't use the bombs in any
case. That thing--whatever it is--feeds on atomic energy. It would
be immune to radiation and heat, and the rubbish of the temple would
protect it from the blast."

Hailard gestured wearily. "What can we do, then?"

Alston hesitated. "You can't do much. If you'll trust me, there's
something I'd like to try. It may not work, but you'll be no worse
off. I'll need a small, fast plane and a pilot with guts. Also a
flame-thrower and some grenades, both incendiary and explosive. A
parachute--"

Hailard's eyes met Alston's in understanding. He nodded, shouting
orders.

Rocket tubes blasting, the tiny plane drew a trail of fire through the
gray sky. Over the city it nosed into a steep power dive, bored down
in thunder, skimming walls and terraces. Over the shadowy courtyard
of the temple enclosure, it pulled out, zoomed swiftly, topped the
near buildings and vanished. Behind it a parachute burst open in white
flowering.

Burdened with the carrying case of grenades and a portable
flame-thrower, Alston dropped like a plummet. Pressing a release, he
slipped from the harness before his feet touched the ground. He landed,
running.

Before him, the flame-thrower belched its roaring scimitar, and snarls
of the knotted greenery withered from his path. Half a moment brought
him to the oval portal. Gouts of fire washed it clear of the tangling
obstructions.

Choking, he kicked through the smoking ashes and burst into the
temple's gloom. The place was alive with menace. Murmurings built into
shrill tumult.

Down the crumbling terraces he stumbled, cutting a wide swath with the
swishing flame. The temple buzzed like an angry beehive. At the pit's
edge, the flame-thrower's reservoir ran dry. It hissed and the fiery
jets died. He flung it into the pressing dark.

Kneeling, he stared into the quivering horror of the pit! The jellied
light within stirred with life, bubbling furiously. With his teeth
Alston drew out the pins of two grenades, dropped them. Two more.
Feverishly, as rapidly as hands could function, he jerked out pins and
hurled the bombs deep into the churning protoplasm in the pit.

From below came a staggered flash, followed by jarring concussions.
The pit was a manifold convulsion of movement. Fans of flame spurted
upward, became fountains of light and uproar. Waves of sound and
pressured air hurled Alston back from the curbing. With the last burst
shot up quivering, ugly chunks of pulpy matter which clung and burned.

Crawling masses of vegetation reached him, struck, broke in myriad
struggling forms. Tentacles and tendrils of vine bore him down,
overwhelming in their clinging embrace. His heat gun burned them
through, loosening their grip. He broke clear.

Something like a fiery whip flicked his face, drawing blood and
shooting rivulets of pain through arms and legs. Vines licked out,
enwrapped him, lashing, constricting. Steel-hard tentacles bound his
arms to his body, crushing. From the surrounding dark came muffled
explosions as spore-pods burst. A fine mist of searing dust powdered
his face. Dust stung nostrils raw, burned into his eyes.

Incredible sound shrieked from the pit. A cry of mortal agony. Vines
and tentacles released suddenly. Alston staggered and slumped to the
floor. Blind, tortured, gasping for breath, he dragged himself. Groping
fingers found the curb and led him to the ramp. Crawling, he inched
his way over its high-flung span, down. Upright again, he stood before
the pedestal, climbed upon it, fingers numbed and bloody. His arms
stretched upward toward the frightful thing upon the web.

Blind, he did not see the swift blight overtake that lovely body. He
did not see the rot which turned the softly molded limbs to dripping
slime, the charnel droplets form and course down the blackened webbing.

He did not see the sudden withering of vines and snake-trunked
treeforms in the temple, the dark, ugly writhings of the stricken
plant-things, the collapse and convulsive death of all the fearsome,
unnatural legions outside. He did not hear the dry, crisp, rustling
fall of dead, shrunken leaves throughout the forest.

Blind and insensible, Alston stood upon the island pedestal in the
ruined temple, arms yearning upward in hopeless supplication to the
monstrous, decaying horror on the veil. He still stood there when a
mopping-up squad of convicts searched the temple and found him. Raving,
he was borne away to the returning ships.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is another matter that he awakened later in the radiation hospital
at Quanta City. Beautiful Kial Nasron, also suffering from painful
radiation burns, sat beside him on the bed when he tore off the
bandages and opened his eyes upon darkness. She pressed him gently back
to the pillow, told him that he had been freely pardoned, and promised
that he would see again, months later, when the paralysis had left his
optic nerves.

It is also another matter that when Kial and her father returned to
Mars Craig Alston went along, and that a court there reversed its
findings in his case, restoring full civil rights which a man needs to
be married.

In time even a man like Torkeg Nasron can be civilized into a potential
father-in-law. Craig Alston volunteered for the Second Trans-Plutonian
Expedition, and while Kial waits for him, she can work upon her father.
But in the years ahead, she and Alston will rarely speak of Venus
with its age-old mystery, its forgotten cities and strange plants.
And they will try not to think of the temple and the Circean monster
in its sacred well, nor of the thing that hung upon a veil of woven
moonbeams....





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Pit Of Nympthons, by Stanley Mullen

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PIT OF NYMPTHONS ***

***** This file should be named 64020.txt or 64020.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/2/64020/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
