The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dateline: Mars, by Richard Wilson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dateline: Mars

Author: Richard Wilson

Release Date: December 22, 2020 [eBook #64073]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DATELINE: MARS ***




                            Dateline: MARS

                           By RICHARD WILSON

               It was the story behind the biggest story
              on Mars--how Fate had grimly reckoned with
               the Rockhead Rastol--but Scott Warren of
               Galactic News couldn't write it ... yet.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Scott Warren snapped off the vision screen and sat down in front of
his typewriter. Through the glass side of the building he could see
the lights of the celebrations whose sounds he had just silenced. He
lighted a cigarette and started to type out the final edition of _Today
on Mars_ for transmission by Interradio to the New York bureau of the
Galactic News Service. He started the news roundup:

"IOPA, MARS--(GN)--Events on Mars were at a snailspace today, the
midpoint of the traditional three-day Landing Day holiday...."

Scott rolled the paper up in the carriage of his typewriter and jagged
a line through what he had written. Four "days" in the same sentence
might get past the night desk, but the New York bureau chief would
send him a memo about it in the morning.

He started again.

"... Landing Day celebrations on Mars are at their midpoint tonight,
with both Earth people and natives...."

He x'ed out "natives" and substituted "Martians," remembering the memo
he'd got about _that_.

"... both Earth people and Martians forgetting their political and
physical differences to take part in planetwide carnivals. Business
houses, government offices and stores have been closed down since
Friday, and Pleasure is king. The two great cities on Mars--Iopa and
Senalla--are ablaze with light, from their desert outskirts to the
quarter-mile-high government buildings that mark the center of each.
Parades, speeches...."

Scott snubbed out his cigarette, shoved his chair away from the desk.
He looked out over Iopa toward the government building, spotted in
searchlight rays from all sides of the city. It was bad enough writing
this stuff--bad enough grinding out a routine night lead, to be later
dictated to Interradio for transmission across space to Earth, simply
because the news schedule demanded two daily Mars roundups--

But it wasn't even the truth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The truth was that both Earth people and Martians were observing
Landing Day with the usual fuss--but that it was all a big masquerade.
The oldtime distrust of Terrestrials that had come with the first
spaceship was still there. It had never been completely wiped out. The
only ones being taken in were the people back home, who knew nothing
about Mars except what they were told by people like Scott Warren, and
who usually saw it only as a red pinpoint in the sky, if the weather
happened to be right.

When he got to thinking this way, Scott Warren felt more like a
propagandist for World Government than a newsman--the chief of the Mars
bureau of Galactic News. He wished he could tell them the truth, a
truth not dictated by Policy. Some day he'd write a book. That was what
all newsmen said, wasn't it? The truth would have gone something like
this:

"The distrust Martians have for Earth people--yes, that includes you,
dear friends of the reading, listening and viewing audience--wasn't
completely wiped out even when World Government corrected its first
monumental blunder. Oh, yes, W.G. has made blunders, and the first was
a whooperdoo, ladies, gentlemen and prodigies, a whooperdoo of the
first order, a dilly whose details still are skirted when we talk about
it, because they're very, very embarrassing.

"The first spaceship, you see, dealt naturally enough with those
who had seemed to be the rulers of Mars, if not the duly elected
representatives of the pee-pul. And so did the Earth emissaries who
followed. These Martians in the welcoming party were a crafty race,
stockily built with oversized heads like granite, hard-bargaining
and double-crossing. Rockheads, we called them, and still do,
underestimating them.

"As our politicians point out with pride, there has been no
colonization of Mars--as such. Not even despite the cries of the
imperialists back home. And there has been no war, you will remember,
although for a while it was touch and go.

"Among the first to come from Earth were the World Government
commissions. C.E.A.--exploration and assessment. C.E.D.--economic
development. C.I.I.--industrial integration. C.H.W. came later--health
and welfare. And so did C.I.E.--information and education.

"It all worked very smoothly. Mars, you remember, was the goal of
space-flight for half a century, ever since the pioneer hop to the icy
rock of the moon; and the planning commission had it all set up, in
advance, from Martian Relations right down to War Planning (top secret
in the "if necessary" category).

"But Earth muffed it, and good. The Rockheads of Mars who met the
spaceship, and whose delegations worked with the Earth emissaries,
were intelligent people, true--but they were the fascists of Mars.
What World Government didn't know, and couldn't have known, was that
there had been a military revolution on the red planet a short ten
years before the first spaceship landed, and that in that revolution
the democratic government of the planet was overthrown and its leaders
killed or banished!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Scott Warren took an imaginary sip of water and paced up and down
his imaginary lecture platform. He pointed a finger at his imaginary
classroom.

The big shots of W.G. had found out about it, of course. It didn't take
them too long. Only about two years went by before they were convinced
of what had happened, and they had had suspicion of it long before. But
it took W.G. twenty years to do anything about it. Twenty years, mind
you, when the average lifespan of a Martian is forty.

Of course there were reasons. Good, sound, diplomatic reasons. In the
first place, it would have been embarrassing to act sooner. There had
been such hoopla and ballyhoo during the first negotiations with the
Rockheads, so many grandiose statements and telepix of interplanetary
amity, that to have confessed then would have been diplomatic
suicide--or so they thought. So the fiction had been maintained. Not
only maintained, but magnified and distorted.

So bad did the distortion become that the people back home had almost
no inkling of the difficulties in negotiation, of the many concessions
Earth had to make to Mars' totalitarian rulers. They didn't know how
many insults the Earth envoys had to swallow, or of the innumerable
conferences that ended in deadlock because of the Rockheads' impossible
demands--demands made to impress their own subject people with their
might--or of the W.G. investigators who were imprisoned because they
had stumbled across some particularly noisome secret of the corrupt
Martian government.

Scott was getting quite wound up. He was pointing a finger again when
the door opened. His finger paralyzed in midair.

The thing that entered was taller than he. The entire upper half of it
was a face. An idiotically-grinning, white-toothed face. Its eyes were
outlined in black and its lips were an oversized red. A caricature of
a woman's face, with a great mass of blonde hair coiled fantastically
above.

"What the hell," said Scott.

The figure bent forward, and the huge mask came off.

"Hello, Scott," a girl said.

"My Terrestrial aunt," said Scott. "Ylia."

She was a Martian, the daughter of one of the subcommissioners of her
government. Ylia wasn't pretty by any Earth standard. She had the
big head of her race, the stocky body and the flat face. But she was
esteemed by the Martians as attractive, as far as looks count on that
planet.

"Why the mask?" asked Scott. "I didn't think you went in for all this
brothers-together nonsense."

"Everybody's masked tonight," she said, meaning all the women. "I had
to see you, and I thought I'd attract less attention if I wore one,
too."

Scott knew what the masks represented. They were brought out every
Landing Day and worn in the streets for the traditional celebrations.
The masks were all of women--Earth women. Few Earth women had come
to Mars, but Earth's advertising had come as soon as the planet was
opened to trade. And with the ads had come the art which hadn't
changed in centuries. A pretty face, it was reasoned--if there was any
reasoning--ought to sell as much soap or cigarettes on Mars as it had
on Earth. Hence the masks, representing Earth's greatest contribution
thus far to the culture of its neighboring planet--advertising and the
female face.

"What's up, Ylia?" Scott asked.

"We're having a meeting, sort of, and Father would like you to come, if
you can."

"Why sure," he said. "When is it?"

"Anytime you get there. You see, you're sort of part of it."

"Will there be anything I can use in the roundup?" Scott asked.
"There's nothing in it so far except color stuff on Landing Day. It has
to go off in a few hours."

"You're the newsman," Ylia said. "Why not come and see?"

"Good enough," he said.

"There's something Father would like you to bring with you."

"I don't usually carry a gun," said Scott, "but I guess I could
scrounge one up if I had to."

"Nothing like that. I think you have what he needs right in your files.
The Green Arrow affair. You do have it, don't you?"

"Of course. We have copies of all the stories on it that Galactic sent
out. I can dig them up in a couple of minutes."

"No," said Ylia. "Not that part of it. What we want is the information
you didn't send out."

"Oh?" said Scott.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Green Arrow was the name the news services had given a guerrilla
leader who'd spearheaded the resistance movement against the Rockheads
before World Government had got around to any definite action. The
name came from a chalk symbol he had left behind him after each raid
or foray. Around the Green Arrow had rallied a handful of partisans
who had not been content with W.G.'s slow and not-so-sure methods of
deposing the Rockhead regime. They were men of ideals and, more than
that, of action. Somewhere in the desert below Syrtis had been the
Arrow's headquarters. All the punitive expeditions of the Rockheads had
failed to find him. No one had known who he was. On the rare occasions
that an Arrow man was captured, no amount of torture could get a single
secret from him.

The damage the Green Arrow did to the Rockheads was negligible in its
overall effect. But he had been more than a night raider--he'd been a
symbol to the people in the Rockhead yoke that someone was actively
on their side. There was a tremendous lift in spirit each time the
Arrow hit a Rockhead target, and for days thereafter people in the
community where he had struck--and in others, too--were more cocky and
less cooperative than the Rockheads thought they had a right to be.
The Arrow's raids sparked slow-down movements and some sabotage and
evoked Rockhead reprisals, against guilty and innocent alike. Some
of the reprisals were cruel--so cruel that they would have deterred
a less determined man--but the Green Arrow was not to be swayed. He
remained--even after he was captured and executed--a symbol of liberty
in a land which had not tasted such a blessing for years.

Galactic News had covered the Green Arrow story from start to finish.
G.N. gave it the full treatment, despite threats from the Rockheads and
the denial to it of certain newsgathering facilities. More than that,
Scott Warren got permission from G.N.'s New York headquarters to send a
man out to interview the Arrow. The reporter got through where all the
anti-partisan forces of the Rockheads had failed, and interviewed the
Arrow in his desert headquarters. That interview was the journalistic
beat of the year--and was highly embarrassing to the Rockheads. Shortly
thereafter the reporter was arrested by the Rockhead secret police, and
it took all the influence of World Government to have him released.
The name of that reporter was George Mercer. He was now covering the
Martian parliament for Galactic News.

There had been more in Mercer's story than had been made public,
however. Before Galactic broke the story, it went with it to W.G. A
high diplomatic official there, in the interests of security, asked
G.N. to withhold one fact, and Galactic agreed. As things turned out
it was nothing W.G. hadn't known; but something in the nature of a
politico-military secret. It was the name of the Green Arrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scott Warren knew what the name was, but it meant nothing to him. He
got Mercer's original story out of the files--it had once been kept in
a safe--and put it in an inside pocket.

"This used to be classified material," he said to the girl. "It's not
any more. I don't know why you want it."

Ylia smiled. "Are you ready to go?"

He nodded. She put the grotesque mask on again and the two of them left
the building.

Ylia's father was Kring, a sub-commissioner of commerce in the
government of President Murain. (The news services had begun the custom
of transliterating Martian names into pronounceable English, the W.G.
language, and W.G. itself later adopted it.) Murain was a symbol of
World Government's diplomatic triumph, as Earth chose to regard it.
For two decades the dirty political game of collaboration with the
Rockheads had been played--although it was on such a high level that
diplomacy was considered the proper word. It ended, finally, with free
elections--the first since the military coup.

The elections were the result of W.G.'s long psychological siege
against the Rockheads. The men from Earth played on the vanity of the
complacent dictators until they believed they could be the people's
choice voluntarily. It was a masterpiece, Scott had to admit--but a
masterpiece of striped-pants double-cross. On the one hand the Earthmen
pumped up the egos of the Rockheads, and on the other they smuggled the
democratic leaders--those who still lived--out of their desert Siberias
and let them talk to the people in thousands of small indoor gatherings.

The people anywhere--whether it's in Iopa or Middletown--are smart
if they have the facts. These people went to the polls and booted
the Rockheads out. It was close, and there was some violence when
W.G. watchers arrested repeaters from the Rockheads' machine, but
the dictatorship went down in a relatively peaceful manner. The
democratic coup evoked a singing story from Scott Warren, who was then
newly-assigned to the post of Mars bureau chief. The story won him a
journalistic prize.

The election also provoked a counter-revolution by the Rockheads,
which had to be put down by World Government's police troops. That was
another story, and it won Scott a rest leave on Earth--which he cut
short to get back to the news beat which he found, strangely, he had an
unaccountable hankering for.

And so democratic government returned to Mars and everything was
dandy--for a while.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scott and Ylia pushed their way through the celebrating crowds.
The big, grinning masks of Earth women were moving chaotically,
idiotically, all around them. Spotlights which were partly heat-lamps
played over the throng in their many colors, coloring and warming the
night scene. Musicians in outlandish costumes circulated in groups of
three or four, their reedy tunes conflicting and yet mingling in a
pleasing semi-harmony.

Most of the crowds were Martians, but here and there a party of Earth
people was taking part in the gaiety. In the warm glow of one big
spotlight, an Earthman was dancing with a Martian girl, her mask and
his fantastic steps parodying a popular Terrestrial ballroom team.

Suddenly there was an intrusion into this scene of celebration. From a
side street into the main square which Scott and Ylia were now going
through there came a knot of people. They came on slowly, about a dozen
of them, their steady progress in contrast to the aimless, carefree
motions of the rest. Their faces were serious, and the group held both
Martians and Earthmen. They were young-old faces, young in age but old
in their apparent contempt for the scene all round them. The group
remained close together, not costumed, and when a reveler pulled at
the sleeve of one in invitation to join a chain dance, he was pushed
away brusquely, almost angrily. When the group reached a well-lighted
position near the center of the square, its members formed themselves
into a tight circle. They pulled signs from beneath their tunics and
thrust them up, then began moving in a shuffling lockstep, chanting
discordantly. They were pickets--serious, almost fanatic young men of
two planets, bound together in their cause. Their signs read: "Down
with the Earth Imperialists," "Democracy, Not Mockery," "What are you
Celebrating--Colonization?" and so on.

They chanted the same things, out of unison, so that their voices
created a nerve-tingling atmosphere of unrest. They shouted defiantly,
yet not looking anywhere but at the neck of the man directly ahead in
the revolving picket line. "Reds Picket Landing Day Fete," Scott said
to himself, thinking in headline terms.

There was tension now among the celebrants in this part of the square.
This was not a time for problems, or for thinking about them, and those
who had gathered to have fun were being robbed of their spree.

Abruptly a Martian stepped up and in a quick motion wrested a sign
from one of the pickets. He ripped it up and danced on the pieces. The
picket whose sign had been snatched made no protest, aside from a look
of surprise and a frown. He stayed in ranks, and the circle continued
to go round.

Cheers went up and other revelers pressed forward. The marchers
tightened their ranks and took firmer grips on their signs. The Martian
who had snatched the first was now conferring with others. He motioned
to a group of silently-standing musicians, and they took up a tune. The
music was rousing and patriotic, and some costumed Martians went into
a wild snake dance. With apparent good humor, but with telling effect,
they drove into the circle of pickets and split them into two groups.
In the scramble, several more signs were trampled underfoot. More
revelers joined the attack and the pickets were split again, until they
were widely separated and all their signs were gone. Their unity lost,
they disappeared in the crowd.

The musicians switched to a gayer tune and there were cheers and
laughter. The Martian who had grabbed down the first sign was hoisted
into the air, where he bowed his over sized head, grinning.

The interruption of the fun was ended, and without violence. Scott and
Ylia moved on.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Scott knew the picketing had been only one manifestation of a
smoldering problem. There was truth in those signs, and the people
knew it. They just hadn't wanted to be reminded of it now. And,
besides, most of them didn't want their thinking done for them by the
left-wingers, who proclaimed the right of the people but too often in
history had aborted the very rights they spoke of so feelingly.

The limited democracy the people now enjoyed had been hard-won. It was
not perfect, they knew, and they suspected that there was corruption
here and there, either in their own government or in W.G. But the
Martian people had had a bellyful of violence. The force used by the
Rockheads, just lately overthrown in a peaceful election, was fresh
in their minds, and they were willing to go along for a while with
President Murain--at least to give him a chance.

They trusted Murain. He was one of them. But Scott was aware that
Murain himself was too trusting. The Martian president was a grateful
man, and his gratitude had made him less suspicious than a politician
should be.

Where the Rockheads had driven hard bargains with Earth, Murain's
representatives drove none at all. They trusted their deliverers--the
men of W.G.--to do the right thing. And the Earthmen, some of them,
were doing the right thing--but for themselves.

Where the Martian democratic government had once lost to the fascists
through force, it was now losing to friends who were rooking it,
in a perfectly legitimate, businesslike way. The Commission on
Exploration and Assessment had now become known off the record as
A. & E.--assessment and exploitation. The business and industries which
should have made the Martians prosper--which should have given them the
schools and housing they had been robbed of by the Rockheads--these had
their profits skimmed off and sent to Earth. The Martians had their
freedom now, true, but they couldn't eat it or build with it.

Ylia pulled at Scott's sleeve. They turned down a side street and, at
an old stone house that seemed as ancient as Mars itself, she led him
through an archway and into a court. She knocked at a door, and, when
it opened, took off her ridiculous mask and entered, beckoning Scott to
follow.

       *       *       *       *       *

They entered a room that was low and wide, furnished with a mixture of
Earth and Mars styles, including some of those chairs which are geared
to Martian dimensions--oversized headrest and, between closely-spaced
arms, a seat that a plump Terrestrial either had to squeeze into, or
avoid.

Of the three people in the room, Scott recognized two: Kring, Ylia's
father, and Toby Black, a W.G. investigator whose real job was known
to only a few and who posed as a sales manager for a construction
firm. The guise enabled him to be places where the presence of a W.G.
representative would be unwelcome. Here, possibly. The other Martian in
the room looked familiar, but Scott couldn't place him.

Scott shook hands with Kring and let himself be introduced to Toby,
although they'd had many a drink together in the Press Club bar and in
less respectable places.

"And this is Mr. Rastol," Kring said of the familiar-looking Martian.

Then Scott remembered. Two days ago President Murain had decided on a
man to fill the job of commerce minister in the Martian government, a
post vacated through the death of a cabinet member. Murain had offered
the job to Rastol. Scott had no idea what had prompted the offer. He
felt sure that Murain hadn't acted of his own free choice; pressure
must have been brought on him. Apparently it was a concession he felt
it necessary to make--a sort of horse trade with some powerful leader
in Parliament to get an administration bill through. All Scott knew,
now that he remembered, was that Rastol was a Rockhead. Not an overt
one, true. There was no blood on his hands, as far as anyone could
prove. But Rastol had been a power in the totalitarian government
lately voted out. Possibly Murain could find no one else for the job.
Rastol had ability, of course, but he also had a tinge, if not a
definite odor.

He had been brought to trial, under a W.G. indictment, but had been
acquitted of complicity in any of the really unsavory doings of the
Rockhead regime. Some had said it was lack of evidence, but newsmen
covering the trial had a strong suspicion that several prosecution
witnesses had been given bank accounts. And Rastol went free.

And now Murain was offering him the big commerce job--one that held
the purse strings of a fair share of the Martian budget. The post
would give Rastol the power to spend, to let contracts, to make loans
and parcel out a tremendous amount of business. That money could
go to help the economy of Mars back on its feet, or it could be
pork-barreled into the coffers of firms whose ties with the Rockheads
had been only nominally broken.

Rastol's acceptance of the job, not yet forthcoming, and his
confirmation in it by Parliament, would be a kick in the teeth to
Martian democracy. The reason for this off-in-the-corner Landing Day
soiree became a little clearer--although Scott still was unable to
figure out why he'd been invited.

Scott shook the hand Rastol extended and said something noncommittal.
Most Martians looked almost alike to Earth's eyes, except for their sex
differences, but Rastol was distinctive. He was corpulent, a thing most
Martians were not, and he was hairless, which also was unusual. His
skin was whiter than that of most of his planetmen, and he had no neck
to speak of. If Scott had been a caricaturist, he'd have drawn Rastol
as an egg.

Ylia had left the room. She came back now with a tray, and served
drinks. Scott took one of the small pottery cups and told himself he
mustn't drink more than two of them. They contained a syrupy blue
liquid with the kick of a rocket-exhaust.

Kring raised his cup. "To the Republic," he said. They all sipped their
drinks.

"I've asked you here," Kring said, "for a purpose. I should not have
chosen Landing Day if it had not been important. Some of you have very
generously broken other engagements or left your work--" he bowed to
Scott--"to be here."

Rastol spoke in a low, resonant voice. "It is an honor to be asked to
your home, Mr. Kring."

The "mister" was something Earthmen had brought. Mars, before the
Rockheads set up their semi-feudal system, had had no such term of
address.

Kring bowed again. "I am especially happy that you were able to come,
Mr. Rastol, because what I have to say should be of particular interest
to you." He turned to Toby Black. "You, Mr. Black, are interested in
construction, of course, and Mr. Warren's news service has an interest
in something similar--reconstruction. So we are well met."

Scott didn't know what this preamble was leading to, but he wished
Kring would get on with it. He did.

"Mr. Warren," Kring went on, "may also have a news story of some value.
You see, before Mr. Rastol leaves this room tonight, he will have
announced that he cannot accept the post of minister of commerce in the
Murain government."

Rastol didn't move, except for a narrowing of his eyes. Then he said,
carefully: "Indeed?"

Kring smiled a little. "Yes," he said. "I think Mr. Rastol will find
that his private affairs are of such a demanding nature that he will be
forced regretfully to decline the honor tendered by President Murain."

Rastol said evenly: "I hesitate to differ with my gracious host, but it
would seem to me that an individual might be considered to know his own
affairs better than another."

"I am sure," said Kring, "that no one knows your affairs better than
you, Mr. Rastol."

Scott looked at Toby Black, who had leaned forward in his chair as if
trying to see the significance of it all. Scott knew that Toby knew as
much about Rastol as anyone, and probably more. Toby was one of half
a dozen men who were permitted to ride the private elevator to the
private office of the director-general of World Government.

Rastol looked at a timepiece on the wall and rose from his chair. "I am
afraid I must say good night. I had hoped to be better company, but I
have just remembered an appointment."

"Please sit down, Mr. Rastol," said Kring. "We have much more to
discuss."

Rastol moved toward the door. Ylia stepped in front of it. She had a
Q-gun in her hand.

"I am quite proud of my daughter's marksmanship," said Kring. "She is
the equal of any soldier at hitting a target. At short range she never
misses by so much as a hair."

Rastol sat down.

He sipped his drink and appeared to relax. "Be good enough to tell
me," he said, "why you think I would be so lacking in a sense of public
duty as to reject an assignment to which my government has called me."

"The answer is simple," said Kring. "The Murain government is not your
government. Your allegiance is to the totalitarian movement."

"I think the public record will show the falsehood of that statement,"
said Rastol. "The trial to which I was so cruelly subjected proved just
the opposite. You will recall that the verdict was one of acquittal."

"Only," said Kring, "because some witnesses were bribed--and others
were murdered."

Rastol smiled thinly. "Your proof?"

Kring smiled also. "Of that? None, I admit. But we have proof of other
things--things without value in a court of law, perhaps, but which may
persuade you to retire to private life, for your tranquillity of mind."

"Produce them," said Rastol.

He was a cool one, Scott had to admit. Then the newsman realized that
Kring was looking at him.

"Mr. Warren," he said, "if you will be so kind." And he held out his
hand.

Scott gave him the papers he had brought from the office. He had no
idea what bearing they had on the situation now being unfolded.

Kring broke the seal on the envelope and opened it. He looked through
the news reports--those which had been used and those which hadn't.
Finally he found what he was looking for.

"You have heard of the Green Arrow," Kring asked Rastol.

"Of course. A bandit and outlaw who achieved some notoriety. What of
him?"

"You may not have heard," said Kring, "that his real name became known.
To myself and some others who cared to ask, after it was no longer a
guarded secret. His name was Acton...."

Kring looked closely at Rastol. The big Martian gave no flicker of
recognition.

"A not uncommon name," said Rastol.

"Acton was the name of your son, was it not?"

There was silence in the room. Kring's eyes looked steadily into
Rastol's. Ylia stood at the door, her gun no longer pointing at the
guest, but down at her side. Toby Black was stopped with a cigarette
halfway to his lips.

Scott raised a hand to brush away what he thought might be an insect
on the back of his neck. There was nothing there; it was part of the
tension.

Kring spoke again. "Was not Acton the name of your son, and did he not
fight against you and the things you stood for?"

Rastol's eyes went from one to another in the room. He made no other
movement. Even his breathing was not apparent. At length he said:

"Yes, Acton was my son."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kring's breath came hard, as if he had been holding it.

Then Rastol added: "But what of that? Really, gentlemen, this is a
most ridiculous performance. To bring me to this house, to threaten me
with weapons and with words and to produce mysterious papers with the
flourish of a wandering mystic--this is childish. I must ask you to
excuse me. I have an important letter to write President Murain."

"What will the letter say?"

"It will say that I accept humbly, yet with pride that I have been
chosen, the position of minister of commerce in the government to which
I owe allegiance and wish to serve to the best of my poor ability."

"Allegiance!" Kring spat the word. "You speak of allegiance, who have
never known it to anything decent and honorable. You blaspheme the
memory of your son's great deeds when you use the word."

"Neither my son nor any creature that crawls on the ground has any
bearing on my decision. Your threats and blackmail are unworthy of
you, Mr. Kring. And if you persist in this farce, or seek to use your
information publicly, I shall be forced to make a noisy and patriotic
speech which will look incongruous in my biography but which will have
the stupid public applauding from the galleries. I shall say that as
an older man I believed in gradual change and that no man was happier
than I when Mars became a republic under the aegis of World Government.
I shall say, if I am forced to, that of course I had publicly deplored
the activities of the man called the Green Arrow, but that I was in
good company, for did not Mr. Murain--then not yet President Murain
of the Republic-to-be--also plead for peaceful methods of achieving
freedom, and urge his followers to shun violence? And if someone is so
unfeeling as to mention that Acton was my son, could not my impatience
with his activities have been in reality a father's fears for the life
of the boy he had loved from the cradle? Oh, I shall make them weep,
Mr. Kring, and your petty plan will come to nothing. Furthermore, I
shall demand your resignation as a sub-commissioner of commerce, and I
have little doubt that I shall receive it."

"You are an excellent man with a speech," said Kring. "That I admit.
But there is more which you pretend not to know."

"Is there?"

"Much more. You may or may not choose to recall--Druro."

Rastol chose to say nothing. Druro had been one of the blackest
marks against the Rockhead regime. It was the name of an infamous
concentration camp, in which thousands of prisoners had died of
malnutrition and overwork and thousands more had been put to death
because of their political views.

"I can tell you something about Druro," said Toby Black. "I was there
as a guest of your government--the Rockhead government is the one I'm
talking about, Rastol, not the one you claim you're suddenly so fond
of."

Toby put out his cigarette and leaned forward. His thin face got hard.

"Kring is a gentleman even when he's dealing with a louse, Rastol, but
I'm no diplomat. I'm just a hardheaded old trader from Earth, and maybe
some people think my language is crude. But I say what I think, and
I don't like you and your kind. Usually I don't mix in politics--my
business is construction. I started when I was a young squirt and
built things with my hands, and they got calloused. Now I sit in a fine
office and scoot around in a fine air-car, and other men do the dirty
work. But that's honest work. The dirty work I can't stomach is your
kind, Rastol, and since I've got the chance to undo some of it, or
maybe prevent some more of it, I asked Kring to let me speak my piece."

Scott could easily have been persuaded, if he hadn't known better,
that World Government Investigator Toby Black was just that rockribbed
businessman-with-a-conscience that he was pretending to be.

Toby went on: "The reason I saw Druro the way mighty few people saw it
was that somebody slipped up. Druro was also a factory town and there
was room there for a new plant. God knows you had enough slave labor to
make it damned profitable. So I was invited by your Rockheads to look
over parts of the town so my company could make a bid on building the
plant they wanted. But I saw more than you fascists intended, Rastol.
I'm an old country boy and I get up early. One day I got up earlier
than those gorillas who were supposed to tag around with me to keep my
nose clean. And my nose got good and dirty, Rastol. The stench of Druro
is still in it. I got out and talked to the people in town, and the
people had plenty to tell me about that camp just over the hill. Some
of the people I spoke to had been inside it, and they knew what they
were talking about."

"An interesting anecdote, Mr. Black," Rastol interrupted, "but I must
confess that I see no relevance."

Toby lighted a cigarette and spat out the smoke. "The relevance is
coming right up. I heard a lot of different things about Druro from a
lot of different people, but one of the things I heard over and over
again was the same. It was the name of the man whose signature sent
those thousands to their death. I don't have to tell you, Rastol, what
that name was. You sign your letters with it every day."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You can prove nothing," snapped Rastol, his composure jolted for the
first time. "It would be your word against mine, and why should anyone
believe you?"

"That's true," said Toby. "There's no proof. After I heard of your
acquittal I got good and mad about it, and I made a special trip to see
if I could find some of those people I'd talked to back then--to get
affidavits, if they wouldn't testify in person, to get new evidence.
But you and your Rockheads did a good job, all right. You practically
wiped out Druro. There wasn't a soul left who would testify against you
or any other fascist."

"You see? You have no proof."

"No," said Kring, "no proof that would be good in court. But everyone
in this room now is convinced of your guilt. That must be a terrible
burden on your conscience. If I were you I should welcome this
opportunity to make some slight amend. I appeal to you, Mr. Rastol, to
decline the post of commerce minister."

Rastol laughed. "You appeal! You beg! This is the weakness of your
system. You yourselves are so weak that your government cannot be
strong. I know now that the threats against me tonight all were
psychological. Even that Q-gun in your daughter's hands. You would
not shoot me. It is against your principles. Fortunately I have no
principles, and after I have become commerce minister there will be
others like me in the cabinet. And then it will not be long before Mars
again has the kind of government a planet like this needs. Now I am
going--and if any of you decides to remember any of this in public I
shall deny it. And then who do you think will be believed?

"Stand aside, young lady. I am leaving."

Rastol got up from his chair.

This wasn't Scott's show, but he spoke up anyway. It looked as if
everything else had failed.

He said: "I have quite a story here, Rastol. I haven't been taking
notes, but they say I have a stenographic ear."

Rastol whirled on him. "Use it, and I'll sue you and Galactic News
Service for libel and everything else in the statutes. I'll deny
everything and produce two witnesses for every one of yours. You're
not dealing with an amateur, young man. And now I say good night, you
fools."

Kring moved to stand beside his daughter. "There is yet more," he said.
"We had hoped to spare you this, although I know now that our concern
for your feelings was misguided."

"There is no more," said Rastol. "You have bluffed and you have lost."
He whipped his hand through the air. "Stand aside. I am going."

"Stay," said a new voice.

Rastol turned slowly. At the end of the room opposite the door some
hangings had parted. Through them from another room had come a tall,
cloaked Martian, a young man. Rastol looked at him under a wrinkled
forehead.

"Who are you?" he asked.

"Hello, Father," said Acton.

Rastol peered across the room. His face seemed to come apart. It went
slack, seemed to turn gray.

"You're dead!" cried Rastol. "This is a trick! A disguise! Turn up the
lights!"

Acton stepped forward to within a foot of the older man. "Look well,"
he said. "Is it a disguise?"

"But you're dead. I know you're dead. I--"

"Yes, Father. I should be." Acton's eyes were steady, but without hate.
They looked hurt and pitying. "I was at Druro, and you signed the order
for my execution yourself. It was carried out, you thought, and the
last witness against you was stilled. You thought."

The young man threw back his cloak. He had no left arm. "They took me
for dead. The Q-rays burned away my arm and I fell with the others.
I was buried among the corpses. But my friends found me later. There
wasn't much life in me, but they nourished it, and I am here."

"No!" screamed Rastol. "It's not true! It's a lie!"

[Illustration: "No!" screamed Rastol. "It's not true ... it's a lie!"]

He wavered away from his son's gaze and half fell into a chair.

"You deny it," said Acton. "Come, we'll tell the people. They
will decide. We'll go to the great square and ask them whom they
believe--Rastol or the Green Arrow."

"No," said Rastol. "No ... no."

       *       *       *       *       *

Back in the Galactic News Service bureau, Scott Warren came to the last
paragraph of _Today on Mars_. He had written his quota of words about
Landing Day and the speeches and parades and carnival. He had a story
bigger than any of this, of course, but he couldn't use it. Toby Black
asked him not to; not yet.

Rastol had declined Acton's challenge to go before the people. There
in Kring's house, under the hard eyes of his son, Rastol had written a
letter to President Murain and signed it.

The rest would come later. It took time to get the legal wheels in
motion, to prepare a genocide case; but although World Government moved
slowly sometimes, it did move. In two months or three or six, Rastol
would be indicted and tried, and this time there would be no doubt of
the verdict. In the meantime....

Scott wrote: "Elsewhere on Mars, these things happened: Fire broke out
in Senalla, driving fifty persons from their homes. No one was injured,
but damage to the apartment house block was extensive.... A collision
between two air-cars sent three persons to the hospital in Iopa with
critical injuries.... A sandstorm blowing across the desert 100 miles
northeast of Iopa has cut communications with the town of Ramor....
And Rastol decided against accepting the post of commerce minister,
which had been offered to him by President Murain. Rastol said he was
honored by the offer, but that the pressure of private affairs made it
impossible for him to accept."

Scott Warren typed "30" at the end of his copy and sent it off to
Interradio for transmission to Earth. He resigned himself to the
possibility that the night desk in the New York bureau would cut out
his last paragraph to save space.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DATELINE: MARS ***

***** This file should be named 64073-0.txt or 64073-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/7/64073/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
