The Project Gutenberg EBook of Out Of the Dark Nebula, by Milton L. Coe

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Out Of the Dark Nebula

Author: Milton L. Coe

Release Date: December 18, 2020 [EBook #64076]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUT OF THE DARK NEBULA ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        Out of the DARK NEBULA

                           By MILTON L. COE

               Five thousand green space-cadets, manning
            the mighty _Albion_ on their shake-down cruise,
              heard that grim message from HQ: "_War with
              Xantu! Return immediately to Terra Base!_"
               Which posed a problem ... for lurking in
             starry battleground, somewhere between Earth
             and the doom-ship, was half the Xantu fleet!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The bulkheads of the mighty battleship rocked with the song welling
from five thousand throats. As the young, eager voices swelled into
the chorus of "The Spaceman's Hymn," Vice-Admiral Jack Harrigan felt a
lump grow in his own throat. Captain Mike O'Brien, short, muscular and
definitely Irish, joined the admiral at the balcony hatch; together
they looked down upon the huge ship's auditorium.

"It's a long, long way to the Milky Way ..." the chorus rose, fell,
faded and died.

Harrigan nodded to O'Brien and the two men matched strides down the
passageway.

"Something on your mind, Jack?" O'Brien asked.

"Oh, I don't know, Mike. I just got to thinking about the old days,
I guess, hearing those kids singing. The Force is all glory to them;
color, ceremony, power, flitting around the Galaxy like this. Cream
of the crop, they are, and every last one of them fought to get in
the Force. But I wonder how they'd face up to the other side of this
business?"

"Combat?" O'Brien screwed up his face.

"Yeh boy. Combat like we saw, with our backs to the wall and
nine-tenths of the Galaxy howling for our heart's blood. Wonder if
they'd change their minds about the force--" he jerked his thumb back
towards the auditorium--"if it came again?"

"Dunno." Mike shrugged. "Maybe old Fitzsimmons wondered about us the
same way when we went on our shake-down cruise. We were a sad bunch,
I'll admit. But we didn't pan out too bad, did we Jack?"

The two officers had reached the observation deck. The Milky Way
stretched a hazy filament across the heavens. Harrigan drew a long
breath, hooked his thumbs in his belt and smiled.

"No, Mike, not bad at all, if I do say so. It was rugged while we were
going through it, I suppose. But things have been quiet for so long
now ... damn it, we did have fun, didn't we Mike?"

Mike grinned crookedly. "Fun is right. Remember the time Shorty
Michaels caught those two Xantu ships flat-footed behind the Coal Sack?"

"Yeah. Blew 'em to Hell and back and found out later they were the two
strongest ships in the Xantu fleet. If they had seen him first ...
brother, he shook for a week after they told him."

Mike roared with laughter. "Battle wagons, and Shorty with a destroyer."

       *       *       *       *       *

"And how about that time the gang of Zith stinkers ambushed us on
Sirius V.... Were they surprised when their water-pistols didn't kill
us! They didn't know that water isn't quite as fatal to a Terran as it
is to a Zith."

"Yeah," O'Brien said; "and I'll never forget the smile on Cap Martin's
face as he sprayed 'em with the ship's fire hose."

"Well," the admiral said, sobering, "if you'd seen the pitiful remains
in their slave camps on Sirius VII, the way Cap and I did...." He shook
his head slowly. "We should have bounced a couple Duodec bombs off
their home planet. And on Xantu too. Finished the job right."

The captain gazed down at his shoes. "We might get the chance yet. Any
news lately?"

"Not much. Just the usual rumblings from the Dark Nebulas. But I agree
with HQ that the Xantu are at the bottom of it, without a doubt. You
never know when those varmints are going to start trouble. That's the
reason for all this hush-up preparation; we're going to be ready at the
drop of a helmet if anybody wants to rassle."

"Smart move by HQ for once," Mike said. "Never hurt to be ready for...."

A communications orderly saluted smartly.

"Pardon, Sir. HQ Double urgent."

Harrigan took the flimsy from the orderly and scanned it quickly. His
face went slack. "Good Lord, O'Brien! Hear this: 'Dark Nebula forces
simultaneously attacked Rigel patrol post and Capella II settlement
1400 hours. Personnel annihilated. Fleet headed by Xantu elements
headed Sector I. Return to Base Immediately'."

"Sector I. Sol--Alpha Centauri--Sirius sector!" Mike whistled and shook
his head. "They'll cut us off before we can reach Terra."

"They will if we don't get a move on," the admiral snapped, "and, we
can't fight with a green crew. Gotta get these kids back to Terra."

Harrigan leaped to the audio. His orders were short and sharp.

"Drive room: Joe, full speed home, boy. The bubble's busted wide open.

"Quartermaster: Wilson, prepare to issue battle suits.

"Central: Give me the system. Thanks." He cleared his throat. "All
hands hear this. A state of war exists between the Solar Federation
and the Dark Nebula League. We will attempt to reach Terra base before
being cut off by the enemy fleet. However, just in case, we will be
ready. Battle stations!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The next few hours were hectic ones, especially for the few seasoned
officers aboard the battleship _Albion_. The _Albion_ was a fairly
new ship. She was fast, heavily armored, and carried the latest guns,
three facts which Harrigan hoped would save them from disaster. He
realized that HQ had had to break radio silence to notify them of the
sudden outbreak of hostilities, but he also knew that the enemy had
undoubtedly intercepted the message, plotted the _Albion_ course,
and sent a half-dozen of their fastest ships in hot pursuit. That's
the way the Dark Nebula League liked to fight: six to one. Harrigan
figured that he just might be able to outrun them; but if the League
ships did manage to cut them off from Terra ... well, he hated the
idea of fighting that bunch of cut-throats with a crew of green kids.
Ordinarily, new spacemen were distributed among crews of seasoned men
at a ratio of about one in ten. To be in top fighting condition, the
_Albion_ should carry four thousand regulars and four hundred greenies.
There were five thousand men on board; one hundred and fifty old line
officers, fifty newly commissioned officers, and forty-eight hundred
Terran youngsters fresh out of ground school.

The officers had done their best to whip the crew into the semblance of
a fighting unit. If a fracas did develop, they might squeeze through if
the kids could follow orders. But in battle things happened almost too
fast to be covered by orders. A man had to think for himself.

Harrigan found himself staring through the forward screen, wishing
that three or four thousand hardened space-Marines would suddenly
materialize out of thin air. O'Brien came steaming up. He sat down
beside the admiral, lit a cigarette and said "Phwooee."

"Right you are," Harrigan answered. "Things sure popped, didn't they?"

"And how. Think we ought to prowl?"

"Guess so. We're going to watch things mighty damned close till we hit
base. Better check the gun-banks. And by the way, Mike, who had the
controls when that order came in?"

"Young chap named McDaniels."

"And his navigator?"

"Rose. Why?"

"Have them report to me when they come off. They're to be congratulated
for getting us away fast and right. If the rest of the crew picks up
as fast as those two, we'll make out O.K. Let's have a look at those
banks."

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Albion's_ eight gun-banks spangled the ship from nose to tubes
like stripes on a watermelon. Each bank was divided into A, B and C
sections, fore, aft and center. Forty-eight men and two officers manned
each section. The atomic cannon in the nose were fired only by the
ship's Master gunner, a sardonic expert named Irvington.

At number six gun-bank, Harrigan and O'Brien entered section C
hatch. O'Brien's mouth fell open. Along the catwalk behind the gun
emplacements proper, men lounged and leaned. One slept. Several
were smoking and most of them had thrown back their helmets. Of the
forty-eight, three had their eyes on the finder screens.

"Attention," Harrigan roared, and fifty men jerked erect like puppets
on a string. "Get your helmets up and your eyes on those screens. And
keep them there until you're ordered off. This isn't a shake-down any
longer; this is war!" He turned to O'Brien. "Who's in charge here?"

"Lieutenant Sanderson."

"Leave the Ensign in charge and have Sanderson report to the bridge at
once." Harrigan stooped through the hatch. "And Mike, see that the word
is passed along to the remaining gun-crews. Damned if I'll see a repeat
of this!"

"Yes, sir," Mike answered, and turned toward the nervous lieutenant.
"Report to the bridge, Mister, and prepare to be chewed."

Sanderson managed a weak "Yes, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

Harrigan was pacing the bridge when McDaniels and Rose came in, stood
at attention and saluted crisply.

The admiral returned the salute. "Relax, gentlemen. I called you here
to commend you both personally for your fast, clear thinking under
the stress of emergency. Cool-headedness under strain is taken as a
matter of course in the Space Forces, but in this case your actions
served as an example to an inexperienced crew and are therefore doubly
appreciated by the officers of this ship. Sit down."

The two men took seats and Harrigan relaxed behind his own massive
desk. "I was with your father at Cadet school, McDaniels, and later at
the Battle of Canopus. Where is the Commander now?"

McDaniels, short and pudgy, answered proudly. "He took command of
Polaris Base I just before we left on the cruise, sir."

"Oh?"

The kid doesn't know yet, Harrigan thought. If the Force can't stem
the League attack damned quick, old McDaniels and his men will be the
expendables in this scrap. But the kid sitting before him was so eager
and obviously proud of his father that the admiral hadn't the heart to
tell him the true score.

"Sir," Rose piped up, "are you the same officer Harrigan that Dad
mentioned during the First Campaign? He was Master Navigator on the old
'Cometeer.'"

"I certainly am." Harrigan smiled broadly. "'Red' Rose was the best
navigator I ever had. He could plot you half way around the Galaxy and
land you in your barracks just in time for supper. How long has it been
now, six years, seven?"

Rose looked at the floor. "Seven, sir. He was hunting Kalabs on
Callisto when the landslide caught him."

"I'm sorry, deeply sorry."

       *       *       *       *       *

Footsteps sounded in the passageway and the lieutenant, Sanderson, came
in, followed closely by O'Brien. The lieutenant tucked his cap under
his elbow, smoothed back his thick hair and saluted.

Harrigan gazed at the man for a long moment.

"Lieutenant, perhaps the seriousness of our circumstances has not
impressed you fully. But the _Albion_, carrying this inexperienced
crew, stands in imminent danger of being overwhelmed by the League
fleet, or at best, being cut off from Terran base. Therefore I think
it.... Oops!" Harrigan had knocked his water pitcher to the floor.
The plastic didn't break, but water splashed. Sanderson jumped back
convulsively, his face white. O'Brien motioned an orderly to mop up
the mess, and the admiral went on. "You are a seasoned junior officer,
Sanderson. Your record is excellent, otherwise some form of punishment
would be in order. I shouldn't need to repeat that it is your duty to
keep your crew on the alert until we are out of danger. Dismissed."

The lieutenant saluted and turned to leave.

"Oh, Sanderson, one more thing." Harrigan rose and walked around the
desk.

"Yes, sir?"

The admiral faced the lieutenant and, before the dumbfounded eyes of
Rose, McDaniels and the orderly, very deliberately drew his service
blaster and shot Sanderson dead center between the eyes.

McDaniels gulped. Rose jumped up trembling. The orderly let his mop
fall with a clatter. O'Brien winked at Harrigan.

"Great hell, you've killed him." Rose found his voice.

"That I have. That, gentlemen ..." Harrigan pointed to the corpse, "is
a Zith."

An immediate babble of "why's" and "how do you know's" filled the air.

"Look," the admiral motioned and the men gathered around the corpse.
Harrigan stooped, ran his fingers through the thick black hair and
came up with two fleshy, antenna-like appendages about four inches
in length, which sprouted from the skull an inch or so above the
hair-line. "On the Zith home planet, their religion requires that the
head be cleanly shaven, and these antennae are a source of pride. But
when a Zith wishes to pass for a Terran, he allows his hair to grow,
and as long as the antennae are kept flat, he has a fair chance of
going undetected. It's one of the oddities of the Universe that the
Zith and Terran, so unlike in temperament, are, to the eye, unlike
only in this small way. But, in Terran company, most Ziths acquire the
nervous habit of continually running their hands over their hair, to
make sure that the antennae are well hidden."

"But a lot of Terrans have the habit of smoothing down their hair,"
Rose objected. "Isn't that pretty thin evidence to shoot a man by, if
you're not sure?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Right," O'Brien broke in, "but you notice that the admiral said the
antennae were the only difference noticeable to the eye. There's
another, more important difference. The chemical make-up of the Zith
body is such that water reacts violently on contact with it, producing
what corresponds to severe burns, usually resulting in death. The
admiral and I both noticed Sanderson's nervous habit down in the
gun-bank a while ago. The pitcher incident a few minutes ago proved to
us that Sanderson was not a Terran. You men noticed how he shook and
paled when the water splashed near him."

"Then this isn't Sanderson at all?" McDaniels asked, his dark eyes wide
with wonder.

"Our records indicate that a Lieutenant Vern Sanderson left Aldebaran
II about three months ago to assist on the _Albion_ shake-down cruise.
My guess is that the real Sanderson met with foul play somewhere along
the way and this ... thing ... was substituted. The League knew that
war was coming. They also knew that the Federation has lately installed
the new Dyer gun and is in the process of installing the Bergesson
Hyper-drive in its capital ships. This critter was probably one of many
sent to get those secrets. With them, victory for the League would be
assured."

"But why kill him? Why didn't you take him prisoner and find out what
he knew?"

"For just one damned good reason," Harrigan answered. "These boys are
telepathic over short distances--the antennae have something to do
with that. If I hadn't taken him by complete surprise, he would have
notified his pals, if any, on this ship. And, if there should happen to
be a dozen or a hundred of these babies on board, we really would be in
for it. O'Brien, arrange a watch on the mess hall. Have all hands who
do not take water with their meals reported. You and chief Scott will
have to call them in one at a time and give them the acid test."

O'Brien went off to arrange the mess hall watch and Harrigan sat down,
heaving a great sigh, behind his desk. "Well, gentlemen," he said, "you
have seen the enemy. Or at least half the enemy."

"Yes, sir," Rose responded, "but what about the Xantus, sir? I--we've
never seen one of them."

The admiral shuddered inwardly. "I hope you never do," he confessed.
All the wretched memories of two galactic campaigns swept over him
again. "A Xantu looks like nothing more nor less than a beer barrel on
skids, with a cauliflower for a head. Eight independently focussing
eyes, one for each of the tentacles that sprout from the middle of the
chest. Get one of those monkeys behind a gun bank and you'll swear you
have a platoon facing you." Harrigan lit a cigarette, forked smoke from
his nostrils.

"The Xantus don't do too much of the actual fighting, though. Back in
the early days of space conquest, they teamed up with the Ziths ...
I imagine because the Xantus have a terrific technical culture but
are few in number, relatively speaking, and the Ziths aren't great on
technology but have the manpower. And too, their home systems are only
a few light-years apart. So far, the partnership has worked out very
well for the Dark Nebula League; the Xantus providing the brains, and
the Ziths the muscle. They are both ancient races, and very probably
their plans for the conquest of this end of the Universe would have
gone nicely if they hadn't run up against the Solar Federation, led by
Terra. We stand smack across their path. It has come to the point now
where it's us or them, absolutely...."

       *       *       *       *       *

After the Sanderson episode was settled, Harrigan suddenly felt
drained and exhausted, and retired to his quarters. While he slept,
O'Brien, Chief Scott and his men rounded up four more Zith spies who
were immediately executed and unceremoniously dumped into the rocket
chambers. On the double-check, a fifth was discovered cowering in the
captain's life boat and he soon followed his brothers. The great ship
plowed through the ink of space, and the only sounds were the muffled
throbbing from the rocket banks, the steady hum of the chronometer and
the clicking of the audio relay.

At 0500 hours the alarm gong clanged raucously. Harrigan was struggling
into his trousers as O'Brien stuck his head in the door and shouted,
"Jack! They've cut us off!"

The captain explained the situation hurriedly as they sprinted toward
the bridge. "Port watch just spotted 'em. Three o'clock, low, in an
arc. There's only seven of them, but apparently they've taken Polaris
Base and cut us off from Sector I."

A series of muffled thuds was heard, and suddenly a succession of
electric, blue-white flashes from outside the ports turned the dimness
of the passageway into intense, eye-straining brilliance.

"Hot hell! We must have got us one," Harrigan roared, and the two men
broke into a run.

In the powerful bridge screens they could see the great cloud of smoke
hanging in the void, where the League ship had been hit, and, coming
through it, several more of the grim pursuers. Occasionally a beam of
ripping, ravaging energy would lick out towards the _Albion_, but the
slim fingers of death fell shorter of their goal by the minute.

"Well," Mike breathed in relief, "we can outrun them. But what now?"

"Better set a course for Antares IV," Harrigan advised. "The
maintenance depot there can install the Hyper-drive in a few days and
we can make it back to Terra then regardless of what the League holds."

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as the _Albion_ was safely out of range of the League ships,
the two officers were joined on the bridge by Master Gunner Cliff
Irvington. They discussed the narrow squeak for a few minutes. At
length Irvington punched out his cigar and confessed, "I could stand a
drink."

Ten minutes later they were seated in Harrigan's Spartan quarters over
a bottle of good Terran Irish whiskey and a flagon of Jovian Blongah.
Irvington downed an heroic shot of the Jovian mixture, shivered, howled
and grabbed for the pitcher of water which the orderly had placed on
the small table.

"Of all the chicken drinkers," O'Brien chaffed. "One little swig and
he's halfway under the table. Watch this, son, and learn from a master
of the aht." Whereupon the Captain poured a water glass full of the
volatile brew and swallowed it without batting an eye.

"Nuts," Cliff grunted. "I have to stay off the stuff for months at a
time. You birds on the bridge can swill from one side of the galaxy to
the other, but I've got to watch my nerves. And how about that night in
Venusport when I had you two guys reeling, the night before we got our
commissions?"

Harrigan stifled a belch. "Only an idiot could drink that ook and stay
on his pins. What was it now? Oh yes, Thunderbolt cocktail. Two parts
Terran vodka, one part Irish whiskey, gin, three raw eggs, nutmeg and a
jolt of Martian faylee. Cosmos! They say it made good rocket fuel in a
pinch."

O'Brien sat up, glass in hand. "Why don't we mix a batch right now?"

"Don't see why not." Harrigan flipped the audio switch. "Stores.
Hanson? Send a man up with formula thirteen, will you?"

When the supplies arrived a few minutes later, the three men indulged
in an orgy of mixing and much testing, and, when the contents of the
huge bowl met their rigid specifications, sat around it and reminisced
about the early days in the Force.

The three might easily have personified the Solar Federation Space
Force. Harrigan, the organizer par excellence, tall, lean and tanned
by the radiation of a thousand suns. O'Brien, the admiral's life-long
friend, squat and muscular--the fatherly but deadly Irishman who had
hated the League with all his powerful heart since the day, dim in time
but not in memory, that the Xantus had murdered his parents on Sirius
III in the First Campaign. And Irvington, one of the truly fabulous
characters in the Federation. The man who could reputedly hit a black
basketball at three million miles with an energy gun, who flunked out
of pilot's school and turned gunner, and who, annually, spent his leave
mining in the Solar asteroid belt and had become the richest man in the
Force.

These men led the _Albion_ on its questionable course into the future.
Human, and therefore prone to human failings, to be sure. But wise in
the ways of space they were too, and aware of its terrible dangers.

At long last, when the ship's clock stood at 1100 hours, the party
broke up. Ash-trays were piled high, the magnificent punchbowl was
empty. Irvington and O'Brien left together, and Harrigan collapsed on
his bunk.

In his dreams he roamed the narrow streets of Mars Center, watched
the pale, reed-like dancing girls sway their sensuous bodies before
the open-mouthed Federation Cadets, and heard the far-off, haunting
desert music. He walked through the fairy cities of Zithobar where
the fragile, ethereal architecture belied the sadistic temperament of
the inhabitants. And he cruised the tainted stratosphere of the Xantu
planet, that dark and sinister world whose peoples enjoyed nothing more
than heaving Terran prisoners, one by one, into the mouths of roaring
volcanoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anaton, the Federation base on Antares IV, was six days at full blast
without Hyper-drive. After the round of hectic activity surrounding
their escape from Sector I, officers and crew alike found the
uneventful trip restful but boring. O'Brien played endless games of
solitaire; Irvington slept; and Harrigan planned. Anaton was the
biggest Federation base in Sector II, and the Hyper-drive was there.
He just hoped that the base itself was there yet. At 0300 hours on the
sixth day, Antares shone like a great red eye and they were three hours
out of base. Antares III swung slowly past and Harrigan alerted the
crew.

They didn't have long to wait. O'Brien had just stacked his cards away
when the starboard watch howled and three Xantu ships screamed across
the _Albion_ bow, almost on collision course. Harrigan's brow wrinkled
as the tail ship dropped back to engage the _Albion_ and the other two
fled. These were not the usual Xantu tactics. Irvington coolly got
the black craft between his sights, there was a whoosh and a blinding
blast and four billion square miles of space flashed into daylight.
The _Albion_ quickly overtook the two remaining ships and gun-banks
three, four and five riddled one of them. It slowed, spun and became a
lifeless, drifting shell.

[Illustration: A blinding blast, and four billion square miles of space
flashed into daylight....]

But the pilot of ship three was no fool. He suddenly swiveled his
ship, boomed off at a tangent, and, as the _Albion_ whipped by, his
gunner caught her full in the tubes with a full charge from the stern
guns. Now it was the _Albion's_ turn to spin end for end. But as the
Xantu craft spun into his sights for a fraction of a second, Irvington
tripped the atomic cannon again. The bolt ricochetted off the Xantu's
bow and the ship slowly split down the center like an over-ripe melon.
From the bridge, Harrigan counted three life boats deserting the mother
ship and he watched the gunners vainly try to pick them off. But they
were too small a target, and they quickly merged into the sanctuary of
darkness.

He buzzed O'Brien. "Let's get down to Drive, quick. They got that Xantu
blast dead center."

The drive section was a shambles. Men in weird asbestos suits and masks
staggered through the smoke and fumes with the broken bodies of the
rocket crew that had been caught in the explosion. Harrigan brushed at
angry tears as they carried Joe Merrick--the officer in charge--past
them and laid the charred body beside the others. Merrick had been with
him through both campaigns, and now the bitterness within Harrigan
turned to grim resolution. At length, thirty-seven men were counted out
of action permanently. The admiral turned solemnly away.

"Think we'd better set her down on III?" O'Brien asked quietly.

"Guess so, Mike. We can take her down on anti-grav and maneuver with
the bow jets." And then, slowly, "This puts us out of the war, you
realize that...."

"Yeah. And we can't even holler for help or they'll swarm in on us like
a pack of harpies."

"I don't know about that, Mike. Those boats that got away will probably
alert other elements of the League fleet as to our location. It's only
a matter of time anyway. So we might as well break radio silence and
try to get some Federation ships here first. It'll be a race, but it's
the only chance we've got."

Radio room sent the S.O.S. and rang back the bridge almost immediately.
"Message away, sir, but our receiver was knocked out by the blast. We
get no acknowledgment on S.O.S."

"Oh great," Harrigan groaned, "that's all we needed."

"Maybe we could make Anaton on the bow jets," O'Brien offered.

"Doubtful. Besides, we don't want to chance being caught in space with
the _Albion_ in this shape. If my guess is any good, those three ships
were part of a fleet which has just attacked Anaton and by now the
base is probably a smoking hole in the ground. No point in going to
something like that."

       *       *       *       *       *

It took superhuman maneuvering and quite a bit of luck, but at last
the scarred battleship came to rest, in partial hiding, at the foot
of a cliff wall on the rugged, boulder-strewn surface of Antares III.
Space Directory termed the planet "Earth-type; diam. 9,300; atmosphere
breathable for Terrans for a period not to exceed twelve hours."

Harrigan had the portable Dyer guns arranged in a semi-circle at
advantageous spots behind boulders up to one mile from the _Albion_,
in case the survivors of the League ships might set their boats down
nearby and attempt a coup over land. The _Albion's_ own boats carried
out patrols in the hope of locating the enemy before the enemy located
them.

For sixteen hours after the landing, everything was absolutely quiet.
And then, as relief gun-crews slogged out the main hatch to take their
positions at the portables, all Hell broke loose.

A short range, explosive rocket shell arched perfectly into the hatch
and exploded with a deafening roar, scattering the relief crews like
ten pins and slamming the two-ton hatch cover clean off its swivel
pins. The three League boats, with devastating surprise, zoomed in low
and fast over the outlying gun positions, spraying a trail of Reezi
powder which was ignited by their rockets. The countryside went up
in a swirl and a flash. Another explosive rocket struck the _Albion_
amidships before the crews got the more cumbersome fixed guns into
firing position.

The lightning-fast boats were too small and swift to be speared by
anything save a lucky shot. Back and forth they raked the almost
helpless battleship. The attack waned momentarily as one of the black
boats was caught and instantly charred by cross-fire from the _Albion_
one and four banks. The remaining two changed tactics, roaring in over
the big ship, past the top of the cliff, only to spin back, hit and run.

Five of the _Albion_ patrol boats skittered home only to be caught in
the fray and immediately knocked down. Three more met the same fate
and a fourth was dodging desperately for its life when Harrigan's
eyes popped wide open with amazement. A pencil-like, silver destroyer
escort, bearing the insignia of the Federation Forces, fell on the
League boats from zenith position and in a screaming, twisting dive
blasted one and rammed the other into flying rubbish.

The silver ship climbed a few miles vertically to see if the field had
been properly cleared, flashed down and dusted to a stop beside the
_Albion_. Harrigan stepped over the smoking bodies in the main hatchway
and dropped to the ground. O'Brien sprinted to join him, but before
they could reach the other ship, an officer leaped from a belly-lock
and walked briskly towards them.

He snapped a salute. "Admiral Harrigan and the _Albion_?" he asked.

"Right, Lieutenant," Harrigan smiled wearily. "You're very welcome."

"Lieutenant Sanderson, sir, Third Fleet attack arm. I was supposed...."

"Sanderson," O'Brien roared.

"Yes, sir. I was assigned to the _Albion_, sir, but it took me ten
weeks to walk halfway around Pluto from where the Ziths dumped me and
catch a ship to Terra base. I take it they dubbed one of their beasties
in for me?"

"They sure did," Harrigan answered, "but there wasn't much harm done. I
killed you on the bridge, Lieutenant."

"Oh?" Sanderson looked puzzled for a brief moment, then smiled. "Oh,
that's good."

"What's the score now?" O'Brien asked.

"Well, sir, the Third attack fleet is standing off Anton now. You have
probably guessed that part of a League fleet attacked the base. We
picked up a few survivors, but damned few. Then we picked up a weak
distress signal from this area and Admiral Brands had us check on it."

"Good thing he did," Harrigan admitted. "And now, Lieutenant, if you
will be so good as to radio for a tub to pick us up, I will be most
happy to leave this planet."

"Yes, sir, at once." Sanderson saluted and ran for his ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three hours and a few odd minutes later, the transport tub _Avalon_
settled its ponderous bulk beside the _Albion_ and the slow transfer of
the living and the dead began. One hundred and fifty-five bodies were
slated for burial on Terra; another sixty were missing, whiffed into
gas by League guns.

Harrigan sank deeper into gloom as he removed the ship's log and
helped O'Brien check the men off the _Albion_. At last the loading
was completed; the _Avalon_ hung for a moment on its anti-gravs, and
Harrigan and Commander Johnson, in charge of the tub, looked down on
the battered remains of the great craft.

"Better come to the bridge and sit," Johnson said softly.

On the bridge, he poured Harrigan a stiff drink and cautioned, "Swallow
that, and get ready."

Harrigan complied, puzzled. No sooner had he placed his glass on the
table than a small but virile mule kicked him in the stomach.

"Suffering ... what was that?" he gasped.

Johnson smiled. "Hyper-drive. Apparently Tech hasn't got the bugs
worked out yet, but it's good enough for me. Only four hours to Terra."

"Well, well," Harrigan mused. He rose and looked at the swirling
grayness outside the ports. "Same deal on the other end?"

"Yeah. A little wrench in the gut, but you get used to it."

Harrigan said, "Well, well," again and sat down.

"Admiral," Johnson hesitated, "no offense, now, you understand, but I
have been wondering what the _Albion_ was doing way out here on Antares
III. I understood that you were coming into Terra from the other side
of Sector I when the fracas started."

"We were. But when the League took Polaris Base and cut us off we had
to...."

"Took Polaris Base! The League didn't take Polaris Base. They had a
dozen or so cruisers in that area, but they didn't tackle the Base.
Didn't even make a pass at it."

Harrigan slowly dropped his head into his hands.

"Oh my God," he moaned, "and I lost two hundred men on a bad guess. I
deserve to be broken to a Spaceman third class for this." He jumped up
and paced the bridge. "Great guns, what a fool I am! Polaris intact and
I risk a ship-load of green men on a bad guess. This washes me up in
the Force, that's for damn sure."

"Oh, I don't think so, Admiral." Johnson smiled. "In fact I think
that...."

"I don't give a damn what you think, Commander. The Force is no place
for fools. I'm done." And Harrigan slammed off the bridge towards his
quarters.

Johnson smiled faintly and poured himself a drink.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a tired and bedraggled admiral who stepped off the _Avalon_
four hours later into the sunlit bustle of Terra Base I. He felt pride
well up in him at the sight of the powerful base, the battlewagons
and cruisers and squat tubs, some with their guts spread on the steel
docks, waiting for the 'drive installation. Crane winches clanked and
howled, welding torches flashed, and many-wheeled trailers sped about
with ponderous equipment. But the activity was not frantic; it was
efficient and orderly.

He turned for a word with O'Brien, who was now puffing down the
gangway, when a bright young Spaceman First stepped up and saluted with
a grin. "Admiral Garrison's regards to Admiral Harrigan and Captain
O'Brien, and would they report to HQ at once."

"Well, here it comes, Mike."

"Guess so," Mike agreed gloomily. "Why are all these baboons so happy?"
He indicated the clustered groups of Spacemen who regarded them
smilingly as they passed and talked excitedly among themselves.

"Dunno. Maybe they like the thought of admirals and captains getting
chewed down."

They paused briefly outside the door marked:

                            Adm. Garrison,
                           G.G. Port Admiral

O'Brien shrugged. "Here goes nothin'."

Inside, the tall, balding man behind the desk jumped to his feet with
a grin. "Jack! Mike! Boy, you two guys certainly beat anything I ever
saw. Talk about your heroes...."

"Cut it, George," Harrigan growled, "you don't have to rub it in."

"Rub what in? Great Caesar, hasn't anyone told you yet? You guys won
the war, that's all!"

"Yeah. On the seat of our pants at Antares III," O'Brien muttered.

"But I'm telling you, damnit!" Garrison came around the desk and
clapped them on the shoulders. "Those League ships you brought down
were heading for home with the Hyper-drive secret. And you stopped
them."

Slow and stunning realization dawned on the two officers. O'Brien gave
a long, low whistle and sank in his chair. Harrigan broke into a slow
grin.

"What a deal!" Garrison rubbed his hands. "What a deal. You guys will
get promotions out of this or my name isn't George Garr...."

"But what the hell happened?" Harrigan demanded.

"Like this," Garrison explained. "Three League ships picked up spies
just off Anaton. They had the Hyper-drive papers. Then they threw a
Duodec bomb into the Base and high-tailed. The _Albion_ was the only
Federation ship of any size left in commission in the area. You got
them. Just before the last League ship went down, it beamed a message
to Zithobar, which we intercepted. So the Third attack arm swung
over quick to see what the trouble was. Then we got your S.O.S. and
went after you before the League could get back for a little of its
well-known vengeance."

"Now, what the devil?" Harrigan rubbed his chin, grinning. "Is the war
over, then?"

"Not altogether, but it's just a matter of mopping up now, and fixing
Zithobar and the Xantu planet once and for all. The Third and Seventh
attack arms are completely equipped with the 'drive and the Second is
just about ready to roll. Brother, are those babies surprised when we
pop out of nowhere into the middle of their formations and burn them
down before they can aim a gun ... but if _they_ had hooked onto the
'drive secret, it would have been all day for the Federation!" Garrison
threw back his head and roared with laughter. "You birds ... with a
green crew--" he held his sides--"with a tub full of greenies you win
the war. And by accident yet. Oh Lordie ..." he sat down to catch his
breath.

"Well ... I'll ... be ... a ..." Harrigan shook his head.

"Yeah. I'll be one too," O'Brien muttered.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Out Of the Dark Nebula, by Milton L. Coe

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUT OF THE DARK NEBULA ***

***** This file should be named 64076.txt or 64076.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/7/64076/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
