The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Psychological Regulator, by Arthur Cooke

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Psychological Regulator

Author: Arthur Cooke

Release Date: March 16, 2021 [eBook #64842]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REGULATOR ***




                      THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REGULATOR

                            By ARTHUR COOKE

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                            Comet March 41.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The nurse at the desk of Floor 24, Ward 5, flexed a smooth, tan arm
and looked at the hall chronometer. She sighed inaudibly. 20:13:09,
said the dial. Two more hours on duty for Miss Markett Travenor,
F-2349464-23a-10-256W-26. Which was to say that her file was Female
number 2349464 in the Register of Persons, that she lived in apartment
23 on floor 10 in building 256 on the West side of parkzone 26.
Examination of her face and figure would have convinced you that one
as lovely as she could have existed by accident only in the Twentieth
Century. Happily, however, by the year 2046 (in which she was born),
scientific mating was no dream of a few forward-looking visionaries,
but a reality: she was the lovely offspring of a couple carefully
paired.

Markett looked down from her chronometer, her green eyes darkly
thoughtful. Dr. Ward Alfreed (M-2536478-13a-20-358E-22) was late. She
looked down the white-enameled corridor, then at the indicating finger
of an elevator. It had not moved. Easily she pressed a communicator
attached to a strap of her uniform. Immediately a voice spoke:

"Entrance hall speaking--Central Information Desk."

Markett snapped a button. "Lee?", she asked. "Is the hotter down there
yet?" "Hotter," in the year 2066, meant boy-friend.

"Dr. Alfreed," replied the voice, "is going up now with Patient--just a
moment--Patient sixty-six-twenty-five."

"Thanks," replied Markett, snapping off the contact. She picked a card
from the full-view files before her. Patient sixty-six-twenty-five,
Psycho Clinic. "Marked degeneration," read the card. "Cowardly
tendencies--fear of falling, fear of floating, fear of slipping, fear
of standing still. Three attempted suicides unsuccessful due to lack of
creative technique. Prognosis: doubtful. Use of Psychological Regulator
suggested. E. B." All that, and the date for the operation--today.

She rose and faced the elevator as sharp-tuned ears caught the
almost imperceptible hum of doors opening. Dr. Alfreed nodded
cheerfully to her, twitched his head for her benefit toward the man
whose arm he was grasping. Patient sixty-six-twenty-five, no doubt,
she thought, glancing again at his card. Name was Clark Stevens
(M-3972677-234a-150N-190), she saw. Tall, too, and well-built. But,
somehow, his posture and bearing were almost utterly lacking in
masculinity; at the moment he looked the role of a weak, vacillating
subject of a rehabilitation test, and he shocked Markett's sense of
what was right and decent with his overclad body. He wore a shirt
and trousers, seemingly improvised from a number of the one-piece,
short-sleeved suits worn by the world as fashion and comfort decreed.
Yet there was something about him--? She wrenched her eyes back to the
figure of the doctor, small, compact, and natty in leatheret bandolier.
Pity, she thought with professional coldness, must not interfere with
her operative functions. However, the sight of Stevens could not help
but make her think of pictures she had seen of nurses in the old days,
hideously overclad, their freedom of movement hampered. She, as all
nurses of this enlightened era, wore only a bandolier, to which was
attached a harness carrying the various items which must always be on
her person, regulation shorts, and shoes.

Dr. Alfreed took the patient's card from her and scribbled notations.
She turned to take the patient's arm, but, with a cry of fear, he
cowered from her.

"Now," she said soothingly. "Let's come along and not have--" she
was backing him into the arms of the doctor, of course. He pinioned
the patient, and winked at Markett. "Sorry," he said. "He's afraid
of women too. Forgot to tell you. Let's take him in." And the little
doctor lifted the big-boned patient easily to his shoulders, holding
him helplessly balanced, and trotted down the enameled corridor into
a high-walled, darkish room. He dumped the psychotic into one of
many deep, padded chairs, and Markett promptly slapped thick, strong
bands of a tough plastic across the man's knees and chest. Patient
sixty-six-twenty-five began to weep.

The doctor busied himself with a little projector and screen that
constituted the equipment of the room. "What reel?" he called to
Markett.

She wrinkled her nose. "Are you going to do it in one shot or work him
up to it?" she asked.

"One shot. Might kill him, of course. But if it doesn't, we'll have
reclaimed a citizen--and from all accounts a good one. He used to be an
organizer for a coal-mine before this happened to him. Pathetic, isn't
it?"

"Yeah," agreed Markett, busy fastening meshes of pure copper about the
limbs and head of the now quiet patient. "But how about these--these
_swathings_ of his? Do the bus-bars have to contact his skin?"

"No," said the doctor. "We'll just turn the stuff on and see what
happens. It's as strong as they come--you wouldn't understand it; I've
studied ancient history, so it's a little clearer to me."

"Well," said Markett, uncertainly, as the doctor turned off the lights
and started the projector. She settled herself in a comfortable double
seat, and the doctor joined her, while Experimental Reel Seven, Full
Power, went clicking through the camera and onto the screen. But they,
being otherwise absorbed, paid little or no attention to it.

The patient--sixty-six-twenty-five--whimpered and tried to scrape off
the copper bus-bars that confined him. Then his eyes drifted to the
screen, and he beheld a marvelously real landscape, not frozen in paint
on canvas but quivering with life. A rabbit started, and the patient,
who had never seen a rabbit, recognized the little creature, and worked
his jaws. There was an unfamiliar taste in his mouth, as though he
were champing something tough-fibred, like a woven cloth or bit of soft
wood. He had never eaten meat, so to the still-dominant presence of his
ego there was no connotation.

As though he were slowly turning he saw the landscape move, and a
walled city came into view. What a walled city was he couldn't say,
but the words were in his brain; and quivering with rage, he wanted
to tear down the massive bastions with his own hands, and rend the
mailed men who were pacing the ramparts. He clenched his right fist,
and felt the hilt of Al Azaaf, his scimitar. Slowly Roald stood up from
the grass and settled his greaves about his thighs. "Rouse up, sons
of Yggdrasil," he hissed fiercely, and his men--his terrible Norse,
scourge of the coast--appeared from bushes and brakes, drawing axes
from belts and fitting pikes to shafts.

"Seventy-and-nine of us there be," growled Roald without preamble,
"and of them an hundred and eighty or more. Who complains?" There was
silence on the moor, save for the clank of metal as when dirk touched
against breastplate.

Roald grinned savagely and swept aside his long red beard to spit. "The
less men the more booty," he snarled. "Eh? And women--?" He laughed
tremendously. Then, whirling his sword he roared, "By the hammer of
Thor--_Come on_!" Roaring wildly Roald and his red-bearded band made
across the common at a dead run.

There were screams from the city, and much blowing of horns. Arrows
began to smack into the clayey soil about them, and Roald raised
his buckler. He saw the gates of the city swinging shut; yelling
inarticulately he tore a blazing torch from the fist of a companion and
hurled it into the knot of porters and marketmen that was struggling
with the heavy bar and hinges; they scattered in terror, only a second
before the red demons were within the gates, slashing and clubbing
with keen swords and murderous axes.

Roald was the spearhead of the attack, and as he and his men plowed
contemptuously through the rabble ... tradesmen and shopkeepers ...
he laughed wildly. "Guard ho!" he yelled. "Who will come to do battle
with the chosen of Odin. The curse of Cornwall and the damned, stinking
Isle of Britain? Guard ho!" Slash! through the shoulder of a boy with
a pike. He drove a mailed fist into the face of a gammer who was
struggling aside, unwilling to leave her heavy basket of turnips behind.

Roald grinned savagely in the eyes of an archer. "Draw," he shouted,
and as the Englishman reached he spitted him on the curve of Al Azaaf.
A new blade crossed his, and with dirk and sword he ranged up and down
the length of a square with his foe, a dark-eyed young man who fought
precisely and quietly. Behind him he felt the spearhead break into bits
and the body of the guard charged the Norse. The youth extended his
body in a strange thrust, and Roald cursed the queer, slim weapon he
used--a thing like a dart with a hilt. The Viking slashed once, and the
youth parried. Roald slashed again, and there was the shock known to
swordsmen as steel clashed steel. The youth was weaponless, and Roald
cut him down where he stood, kicked the body in the ribs, then spun to
defend himself against an assault from a clumsy pike.

The Viking grinned savagely, and swept aside his beard. "With this
draught," he roared to his men, "I name this city fief to the Vikings
and to Roald, and all its values, be they goods or women or children,
fief also to their conquerors." He glared about him from the eminence
in the walled city's central square, on the scene of desolation and
butchery. He stood among his Norse having left not one of the hundred
and eighty defenders. "_Skoal!_" he roared, and drank.

And Six-six-twenty-five, otherwise known as Clark Stevens
(M-3972677-234a-150N-190), shuddered violently, stared at the screen
that had just run blank. "What--?" he began, sitting erect. "Damn!"
said Stevens, finding himself strangely trammeled by webworks of pure
copper. He wrenched his hands free and tore the wires from his ankles
and head. "You!" he roared at a couple snuggled in an easy chair.

"Quite recovered?" smiled Dr. Alfreed, unfastening the plastic bands
that were restraining Stevens. "A little dizzy?"

Stevens glared at him, and the Doctor backed away. There was a blinding
flash about three inches away from the doctor's chin, and he went down
and out. The patient, rubbing his fist, squinted through the gloom
and perceived Miss Travenor. "Ah," he said gutturally. He stepped out
of his improvised shirt and trousers; Markett saw with relief that
he was wearing the conventional shorts and bandolier beneath. More
unconventional than his former attire, however, was the patient's new
behavior. He spurned the doctor's body with one foot and picked up the
nurse. "Excuse me--" she began plaintively.

"Shut up!" growled Stevens, slinging her over his shoulder.

And that was that.

Dr. Alfreed awoke to realize that he had committed a serious breach
of experimental technique. It had been a mistake not to observe the
screen during the process of rehabilitation, and it had been a grievous
mistake not to check on the patient's reactions. He cursed softly to
himself when he saw clearly enough to be sure that neither patient nor
nurse were anywhere in the room.

Alfreed was a thoughtful man; he realized that, in the old days,
someone would have gotten hell for a blunder of this nature and scope.
In the old days technical superiors would have fired the responsible
party for the incompetency when revealed, so Alfreed was thankful
that these were not the old days. But further than that he did not
think. Perhaps, therefore, he was the truly responsible party for what
was to happen to his snug little world of file numbers, ventilated
houses, air-conditioned clinics, amiable objectives and pneumatically
complacent nurses.

He wasn't spectacularly worried, having no technical superiors to whom
to answer. But he had failed in a social duty. Enough of his careful
conditioning had remained to remind him of that.

"Oh, Hell!" he swore softly, thinking of the consequences.

He reached over to his hyper-typer, banged out a full report of the
affair and shot it into a tube system, one of whose many mouths
gaped from a nearby wall. This, too, was routine. If anything worked
to correct his mistakes this would. Section headquarters all over
the city would be semi-automatically notified, bulletins flashed to
rural districts. Within half an hour millions of citizens would be
informed--_not_ alarmed--by the quick-changing public information
screens.

And with a sense of duty well done he retired to his quarters on the
same floor and stared for a while at a forbidden bottle of wine. Then
he got drunk.

Clark Stevens carried Markett Travenor as far as the elevator door.
Glancing back at the prostrate form of the man he had hit in the jaw
his eyes narrowed. Something of cold reason was coming back. Then,
suddenly, he became aware--but acutely--of the girl he was carrying in
his arms. "Ah," he said. Abruptly he shifted one of his hands a trifle;
the girl shivered and giggled.

Slowly awareness returned to Stevens. Then he let her drop to the
floor. She looked at him again, quizzically, like a trusting child.
This man, she thought, is masculine. But not with the familiar air of
equality to which I am accustomed--but overbearingly male. A sort of
aura covered his body--she sensed something brutish, irresponsible,
uncivilized. Everything he did confirmed this idea:

"What--?" said the girl. She scrambled to her feet, not taking her eyes
off Stevens.

The man shook his head dazedly. "I won't hurt you," he said. "I'm all
right." He hesitated. "I'm--different." Markett nodded. "What I did
back there in England--" he said slowly, and paused. "Do you know?" he
asked. "Could you see what I did?"

"No," said Markett. "I should have watched and checked, but the doctor
and I let it go."

"The doctor," said Stevens. "The man I hit?" She nodded, half smiling.
"And you'd better be getting out of here," said Markett. "He might wake
up angry." She pushed the button of the elevator, and the doors rolled
open. "Come on," she said, as the man stood silently. "You're not
afraid any more, are you?"

"Afraid?" Stevens laughed. "I was. It was something that happened in
the mine--" He drew a hand across his eyes; the elevator's doors rolled
shut, and they began their ascent to the roof.

"Explosion?" asked Markett. "They happen, I hear."

"Maybe. What the hell?" he said, grinning happily. "I'm here, you're
here, and I'm just after storming a castle in England with my Norsemen.
It was terrible, but somehow--I don't know. I shouldn't be proud of the
things I did." He shuddered a little. "Killing. Maiming. And I burned
the town when there was nothing left I could take from it."

The doors of the elevator rolled open, and a flood of sunlight poured
into the tiny cage. "There," said the man, pointing out a plane.
"That's the one we'll take."

"Did you fly here?" asked the girl. "I thought you were afraid."

"No," said Stevens, confidently opening the unlocked door of the plane.
"This doesn't belong to me."

Markett gasped, as her twenty-odd years of inculcated respect for
property came down on her head like a ton of bricks. "You can't!" she
cried. "It isn't yours--you said so." Her voice trailed off as she saw
the baffled stare in his eyes.

"Come in," he offered, making room for her beside the pilot's seat.
Limply she entered and closed the door. "Now," said Stevens, "what did
you say?"

"The plane isn't yours, Clark!" Oddly, she flushed as she called him by
his given name.

"Well," said Stevens, puzzlement written over his face, "it is now."
He started the motor with one kick at the pedal and the plane snapped
into the air, hovered for a moment, and shot diagonally up, through and
above low-hanging cumulus clouds that glittered in the afternoon sun.

"Why did you come here?" asked Markett. Somehow she felt safe.

"More beautiful," said Stevens. "And I have plans."

"Plans?" asked the girl. "For yourself?"

"For the world," said Stevens. He nodded his head over the control
board, and a shaft of light was caught in his hair; made it shine like
little curly brass wires. "I must ask you questions," said the man. "I
am different. Can you see it?"

"I can," said the girl. And at that moment she felt that it would be a
better thing for man if she were to seize the controls, send their ship
tearing down to smash into the ground.

Traffic control ship seven (for the district) swooped three times on
the hovering plane. Pilot Petersen scratched his head. "What's he
doing?" he asked Engineer Handel.

"I dunno. Hold it," said Handel, bending over his radio set.

"Report from hospital," said the radio. "Psychotic escaped in
plane. Give warnings. The plane will be identified later; its owner
is undergoing a serious operation and no records are immediately
available. Be advised."

"That must be it," said Handel practically. "He's out of all accepted
zones and he hasn't got any right to hover over a residential district.
Call him, Pete."

Petersen aimed his short beam radio antenna in the general direction of
the disputed plane. "Calling Monoplane of class ten," he said into the
mike. "You with the brown body and blue wings. Can y' hear me?"

Harshly a voice answered. "We hear. What is it?"

"Sorry," said the pilot, "but you're hovering over a residential area.
That's not allowed. What's your number, pilot?"

"I have no number," said the voice, "and I have no license. Stand off
or take the consequences!"

"It's him--the psycho," hissed Petersen to Handel. "Call HQ on your set
while I keep him busy."

"Right," snapped the engineer, tuning in the traffic center.

The pilot turned to his set, his brow wrinkled. How do you handle a
psycho? Humor him. "What was that you said?" asked Petersen, smooth as
silk.

"Stand off, you fool, or take the consequences! I'll give you five
seconds to get away."

"Wait," said Petersen. "Why don't you--" Then he gasped, as his plans
crumbled. The psycho's ship had winged over with terrible speed and was
heading for his ship nose-on. "Stop!" he shrilled into the mike, his
hand on the throttle. Then he sent his own plane into a loop that made
his bones bend, and streaked for altitude, with the demon plane and its
demon pilot on his tail. "I warned you," ground out of the speaker.
"You'll do well to tell the world that there's one man alive who's
not afraid to kill or be killed to achieve his ends. Spread the word,
friend!" And, when Petersen looked around, the plane was a vanishing
speck in the north, as he watched it reach the blending point and
vanish in the sky.

Handel, gibbering in a corner of the traffic ship where the last loop
had flung him, cried, "What happened to it?"

"I don't know," said the pilot soberly. "Did you get HQ?"

"Yes, but the loop smashed my set. What do we do now?"

"Fly back, but fast," said Petersen, giving his ship the gun.

"Pete," said Handel.

"Yeah?"

"What do we do with a thing like that? I mean how do you finally get
rid of them?"

"I don't know," said the pilot slowly. "Lock them up once you catch
them, I suppose."

"Catch _that_? He tried to ram us! As he said--he's not afraid to kill
or be killed." The engineer shuddered. "Do you think," he asked, "we'll
have to kill him?"

Petersen frowned. "I hope not," he said, his eyes ahead of him as he
prepared to land. "But if there's no other way--what else can we do?"

"How long since they killed a man--purposely, I mean?" The ship was
rolling to a stop.

"I dunno. Maybe a hundred years; maybe more. And who that was, I don't
know either."

The two left the plane and headed for the manager's office, their
faces wry. Petersen was thinking of blood. He was hoping that if they
had to kill the psycho they'd do it some dry, quiet way. And Handel,
nursing a bruised lip, was hoping exactly the same thing. Mankind,
after many years of mutual hatreds had at last reached unanimity, and
an idealistic one at that.

The stolen plane crashed to a halt through the brush and bracken of the
abandoned clearing. Markett looked about her.

"Do you know where we are?" asked Stevens.

"I think so," said the girl slowly. "It must be a park district that's
being allowed to lie fallow. Probably it won't be touched by anyone for
a few years. Or wouldn't have been."

Stevens stared at her. "You mean--?" he asked.

"I mean that in a matter of hours the world will be down on you. Sheer
force of numbers will make you yield to them. Oh, Clark, can't you see
that you're _wrong_?" Her eyes suddenly widened with dread as she saw
his hands work convulsively.

"Get out," he ordered, and she obeyed, thinking wildly of a dash to
safety. Safety among the trees? Without a man to help her for perhaps
hundreds of miles! Meekly she stood, waiting for what might happen. She
could not believe that her life was to end at the hands of a madman.
She found it hard, indeed, to believe that Stevens was mad. Confused,
rather, by the overdose of the Regulator to which he had been subjected.

"Brave woman," he said. "I see you do not fear my madness. _That_ is
well. You are to be my mate--no, my wife."

"Wife?" she replied calmly. "But marriages are no longer customary.
And, even when they do happen, it is only through consent of the bride."

"All this," he said slowly, "must be changed. There is no life in this
world, no struggle." He thought further. "Men must fight--if not each
other, as I did in England, then something bigger. We must fight now
to bring life to this silly paradise we're in. Even if it means the
spilling of blood."

She, the nurse, shuddered at the thought of blood. For radio-knife
surgery had made incisions a dry affair, without confusion or
infection. Accidents were few; many lived their entire lives without
seeing their own blood. "Can you do it alone?" she asked.

"I can start alone," he decided. "I shall find my warriors in the
mad-houses and the clinics. Many of the inmates of these institutions
are no more mad than I; they've merely been put away because they saw
clearly, as I do."

"But they'll find us. They'll find you!" she cried in sudden anguish.
"They'll find you! Kill you!" Suddenly sobs choked her.

"They will forget me after awhile. They will think I was a fool and
drove my plane into the ground or a hillside. So I shall wait. And
then, when it is clear, and they have grown weary of looking, or
expecting an attack from me, I'll go out after my men and women.
We'll place them where best suited; some in transportation; some
in utilities, and some in communication. And some with the Psycho
Regulators. Then we strike, strike _there_, and the world is free
again!"

Markett grew white as she realized that this dream of power could be
more than a dream. She looked up into his face, quiet now. What had
happened to him? Would he become more and more obsessed, more violent?
Perhaps if she could persuade him to wait--to stay there quietly with
her while he worked out plans--the influence of the Regulator would
begin to wear off.

Over the course of some two hundred years the white man of North
America had lost what backwoods skill he once possessed. The little
party snapped twigs and stumbled over stones as they advanced through
the wilderness at the dead of night.

"How long?" asked a neuro-muscular specialist.

"About ten minutes more," said a general practitioner.

"Excuse me," said the specialist, who became violently sick in a bush.
Returning he said, "'M not ordinarily weak like this, but--"

"I understand," said a civil engineer. "It's a pretty revolting notion
at best." He hefted a pick in his hand, and sighed.

"I don't see why--" began the specialist in loud and irritated tones,
only to be cut off by a terrified chorus of "shh!"

"Sorry," he whispered. "I was saying that I don't see why there aren't
special bodies of men for this sort of thing. I mean, why pick men like
us to do work we haven't studied?"

"Haven't had the opportunity," said a pianist. "And there's good
reason why we haven't a body of men as you suggested."

"I can't think of it," whispered the specialist.

"Assume," said the pianist, "that there is a group chosen--by lot, I
suppose--to keep in line all eccentrics like the gentlemen on whom we
are about to call. Then how do we keep this group in line?"

The general practitioner pondered, and, still pondering, fell into a
brook. "Sorry," he gasped, being helped out. "But I have the answer to
your question. How to keep them in line, I mean--if they misbehave you
stop their salaries. Right?"

"No," said the pianist. "Because if they're trained to inflict
suffering as a negative bribe to good conduct how are we to keep
them from utilizing their training as a negative bribe to the end of
exacting tribute?"

A historian unexpectedly spoke up: "In ancient days that technique was
known as the 'shakedown racket'."

"Indeed," said the general practitioner, pondering again. "There must
be some way of insuring good conduct," he brooded. "Why not set up two
rival bodies of men to check on each other?"

"Because," said the specialist, now quite won over, "they would either
join forces--disastrous to the common welfare--or they would struggle
openly for supremacy and the victor would assume that he had the
_right_ to oppress common folk."

"I see," sighed the general practitioner. "How much farther?"

"As I remember it," said a radio engineer, "the message came from
the plane as it lay half wrecked by their dwelling. That makes it
about--there." He pointed, and silhouetted in the starlight they could
see the outlines of a monoplane. "Type ten," said a transportation
engineer, regretfully tightening his grip on an electric drill's
ponderous bit. "Shall we kill him first or get the girl to safety?"

"Kill him first, I say," volunteered the historian. "All in favor?"
There was a soft chorus of assent. "Well, then," said the historian,
"let's get as close as possible before he wakes up."

Stealthily they crept into the clearing and approached the little shack
of boughs and trunks which had been flung together.

"Not bad," whispered a structural operator. "Well chinked,
ventilated--in a primitive way one couldn't wish for anything better."

The neuro-muscular specialist took a heavy pair of operative forceps
from his bandolier, and pushed on the door. It swung open after
offering only a slight resistance. The seven others crowded into the
large room and distributed themselves strategically. The pianist
squinted through the dark and whispered, "There he is. I mean they
are." Lying on a sort of semi-permanent bower were the two outlanders,
side by side.

"I saw," whispered the transportation engineer, "I hadn't thought it
was anything like _that_--"

"He probably threatened her," said the specialist. "That _must_ be it."
He raised his forceps and said uncertainly, louder than he had meant
to, "Well!"

And Clark Stevens awoke. "Now," he muttered, and his eyes opened.
Like a shot from a gun, his lean body snapped into steely action. The
specialist he grasped by the wrist, flung away like a rat.

There was a shrill intake of breath in the room, and the men with
weapons poised were frozen where they stood. Every man there knew
what should be done, what had to be done for the safety of their
civilization, and had spent time studying the use of the weapon he
carried. But they couldn't do it. The genteel conditioning, in which
all thoughts of physical violence had been carefully weeded out from
birth, left them helpless before this man.

Stevens rose before them, and, in the gloom of the hut, his eyes blazed
like twin embers of a burning city. He uttered one inarticulate
roar, and started for them. That galvanized them into action; they
were capable of as swift motion as he, but in another direction. They
dropped their weapons and fled.

Stevens watched the last of them vanish, then felt a hand take his.

"They--they didn't hurt you?"

Silently he drew her through the door and their bare feet felt the loam
of the clearing. The night wind fanned their faces. He turned to her.
"I made them run," he laughed, and she smiled. Markett was used to the
bursts of childlike glee, and she loved her husband. He had insisted
upon some sort of ceremony which apparently was tied up with Roald. And
beside the usual broad grin was a kind of shrewd, calculating glint.

"_They_ can't fight. They've forgotten how. But now they know it."

"Then," she whispered, "we're safe."

"Safe," he repeated broodingly. "From men, yes. But they have their
machines. And machines can be set to kill as well as to build. We must
move on."

Markett turned slowly and looked at the lean-to where they had been
living. She laughed, a little nervously.

"Strange," she said. "At first I didn't like our--home. It was
small--smaller than any of the apartments in the District Dwellings.
And we always had to go outdoors for water--cold water that I couldn't
drink because it hadn't been distilled so that all the salts and taste
had been removed. Must we go, Clark?"

He held her tighter. "It was our home," he said, "but we must go on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Far to the north, where sane men did not go, where enormous trees
guarded the silent paths of animals to the water-hole, there was a
fire, man-built, cunningly piled against the bole of a tree and slanted
away from the wind so that it would burn through the long night as a
bed of glowing embers, little tongues of blue flame leaping up now and
again to warn off any bear or wildcat that might seek easy pickings
among the silent forms huddled in a circle. Men they were, big men with
gnarled beards and knotted shoulder-muscles, sleeping restlessly and
lightly, with one hand lying near cunningly constructed spring-guns and
flat, gleaming backswords, into whose steel blades had been let threads
of blue and red enamel in glowing, wide designs.

The crack of a twig broke the stillness of the forest night. With a
grunt, the largest of the men sat up, his fist closing tight around the
hardwood hilt of his sword.

"Hibron?" he called softly. "Is it you?"

Through the dusk strode a figure--a huge-boney male whose hair and
beard were like twisted, golden wires, whose loins were girded in the
pelt of a lynx, and who carried a hardwood staff a weaker man could not
have lifted. He thundered: "Who're you and who d'ye take me for?"

Around the fire men sprang to their feet, gripping weapons and raising
bows. Their leader held his sword at guard and eyed the stranger
coldly. "I mistook you for a missing member of our party," he said.
"Name yourself, stranger." There was an angry growl from the men around
the fire; they advanced, their weapons twitching.

"Are you Fotchy?" spoke up a man in the background.

"Not Hibron nor Fotchy nor any of your people," answered the stranger,
surveying them. "I'm Clark Stevens, wildman and sworn enemy of the city
people. Who are you?"

The bearded man lowered his sword. "Come by the fire, enemy of the
Fotchy, for their enemies are our friends. Are you alone?"

Stevens beckoned into a brush and a slim, firm-muscled woman dressed
briefly in patched remnants of cloth came forth. "Markett, my wife," he
explained. Then to her: "These men are our friends, but who they are,
I do not know. They are honest people, I think. Let us sit by their
fire."

He and the woman crossed their legs before the blaze, and one of the
band piled wood on top. As the flames rose, the forest shadows were
driven back, and every pebble in the little clearing cast its long
shadow on the ground. The black-bearded man seated himself before the
two strangers and his people arranged themselves in council behind him.

"Selim, Stevens," began the leader. "I am Isral, one of the judges
of the clan of Hebers, expelled and hunted down by the accursed
Fotchy these seven generations and more. Are you, too, hounded by the
murderous, invading swine?" The firelight gleamed on his nose and
played about his curly beard and hair.

"These Fotchy," said Stevens slowly. "I have never heard of them. But
I am hounded by another kind, perhaps. I have forsworn the cities of
gleaming metal and glass, with their tasteless water and pulpy food.
This I have left to live in the wilderness with my wife, and for that
reason, they seek to kill me. These Fotchy--who were they?"

Isral spat. "They came from over the ocean and conquered all things.
They imprisoned women and tortured men. Their leaders grew fat and
luxurious while the common people were ground into the earth. The
Hebers (those who we are) were singled out for destruction, though no
one seems to know why. All this have I heard from my father, and there
is much in the story that is strange.

"The Hebers were driven into the wilderness one winter to die, but even
then we were a hardy people and most of us survived the snow and sleet
of the first season. There was trouble as the isolated people met and
formed clans, and much struggling for power. In the midst of this they
neglected to store up sufficient food for the next winter and many
died. For years--twenty, thirty, perhaps--they lived as brutes, with
little more than fire to aid them. But, as a new generation grew up,
they learned to make things with their hands, to build crude machines,
and to turn the laws of nature to the common welfare. And from this
time, we have risen in numbers and the enjoyment of life."

Isral held up a gleaming sword. "We work with iron and pottery and
wood, as well as such metals as we can find in the mountains of the
north; we have flocks of goats, sheep and bison. Although we live close
to nature, we are not helpless before natural forces, though wholly
dependent upon them. We whom you see here are a hunting party sent far
south to capture living deer for breeding purposes."

He fell silent and stared inquiringly at Stevens, who cast his eyes
over the man, and solemnly extended his hands. The gold-bearded man
grinned and said: "You are a _real_ people. I will be your friend."
From the group behind Isral was a pleased murmur. "Then," said Isral,
"you will come with us to the North and live with us, and tell us all
you can about the world you have left. There may be much that we can
put to good use."

"I will," said Stevens. And he was thinking, "These men can fight!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Alfreed had begun by discussing the Stevens affair hotly in the
Medicos Club; a colleague had mildly objected to his neglect of duty.
Alfreed had flared up and called the colleague a dirty name. From then
onward Alfreed's progress was spectacular. There was a challenge to
debate the question, and Alfreed had won hands down. His opponent had
presented his case clearly and logically, then retired from the stage.
Alfreed had walked on with a sneer, the subconscious necessity of
defending himself boiling in his breast.

His speech was like nothing that had been heard from the debating
platform for a hundred years or more, for he began by lashing out
bitterly at the private life of his opponent. Patiently the audience
waited for him to get around to the issue in question, finding
themselves strangely stirred by the wild denunciation. One man yelled
from the floor: "He's right! I'm for Alfreed!" and the cry was repeated
in the hall.

At this the doctor frowned heavily on the audience. "Enough of this!"
he barked. "You, my friend, have seen the menace of this wildman loose
in our midst. I say to you: '_Hunt him down! Clark Stevens must be
destroyed!_'"

The abrupt switch in logic disturbed the crowd not at all. For a
hundred years or more they had lain fallow, ready for the first
demagogue who came along with a phony cause and a platform technique.
In a tremendous burst of enthusiasm the doctor was cheered off
the platform and carried through the streets in a spontaneous
demonstration, and the cry of the first man to rise had been mutilated
into "Right for Alfreed!" which rang all over the city by nightfall.

Deposited at his doorstep the doctor made a gracious speech, referring
to the menace of Clark Stevens, and, passing a hand before his eyes,
begged to be excused. Once in his apartment, Alfreed fell into a
chair, astonished at himself. As he analyzed the matter there had
been a psychological necessity to excuse his own mistake by violence
misdirected, or not directed at all. But it was a good thing at any
rate. Knowing in his heart of hearts that what he told himself was not
true, he pledged himself to release what he already thought of as "his
men" as soon as the menace of Stevens was eliminated. Then he went to
bed. But all night there rang beneath his window the cry or challenge:
"Right for Alfreed!"

When he woke, it was to find that his men had been working fast,
ranging over the city, spreading the news to their friends--news of
this wonderful Dr. Alfreed who had emerged from public obscurity to
denounce the dangerous maniac who had been permitted to menace the city
by the softlings in administrative control.

His door-signal flashed. "Come," he called luxuriously from his bed.
"'Lo, Winters," he greeted an agitated colleague who strode into the
room.

"Alfreed," snapped Winters, "how did you do it? And how are you going
to stop them? It isn't healthy, this concentration on the death of one
man."

"One ruthless, murdering maniac," said the doctor coldly. "Do you call
unhealthy the operation that removes a cancer?" He sat up in bed and
brought his fist down emphatically on his knee. "No! The day that Clark
Stevens dies I shall rest from my labors, but until then it must and
shall be my only thought--and not mine alone but all the people in the
city. And those who say otherwise shall be _crushed_!"

Winters stared him in the eye. "If you're not mad," he said, "you're
giving a very accurate imitation of megalomania. But, for the sake of
the record, I assure you that I shall never be a Rightman, and that
many others have told me the same. Alfreed, you'll never get a majority
in any election, so why continue a futile opposition?"

The doctor frowned. "Get out," he said. "You will see how a _man_ gets
what he wants. He _takes_ it!"

As the door closed on Winters' back he relaxed in bed. "_Rightman_,"
did the old fool say? Not bad. Not bad at all. He leaped out of bed
and dressed. He was nervous, almost hysterically so. As he strode down
the corridor of the dwelling, his friends greeted him with cries of
"Right!" They were on his side, he thought.

He had to make a speech in the breakfast room of the dwelling and
left with the cry of "Right for Alfreed!" crashing in his ears. Time
to organize now, he thought. The enthusiasm must not be allowed to
die down, for once cold reason was permitted to set in, his cause
was lost. There could be no such thing as full debate; he must imbue
his followers with such a sense of their truth and right that they
would, unthinkingly, stamp on the first murmur of opposition, without
listening to what the opposer had to say. Had he really been fooling
when he intimated to Winters that he would take over by force? Maybe.
He didn't know yet. First thing the Rightmen would need, he decided,
would be some sort of identification. Badges--stars? No, these were
too flimsy; they might get lost easily, or then some scoundrel who had
no right to them, who did not swear allegiance to the cause, might get
hold of them.

What was needed was an ensign more substantial--a staff, perhaps. How
about a rod, he thought. A nice, heavy one, of course--it'd look better
that way--and it should be painted with bright colors. They could even
wear bandoliers and shorts of the same color. Red, of course. Red stood
out, attracted attention, and was the color of enthusiasm and violence.
The sight of solid red ranks would at once intimidate opposition and
attract recruits. "Right Red," it should be called. "Right Red" for the
"Rightmen." It is the duty, he thought, of the Rightman to defend his
person against irresponsible attacks, that he may be preserved for the
good of the state.

And, a few hours later, these same words thundered through a microphone
to all parts of the city: "It is the Duty of the Rightman to defend
his person against irresponsible attacks that he may be preserved for
service to the state!" And a thousand bright Red staffs swung up in
salute, while from the throats of the bearers came the chant: "Right
for Alfreed! _Right! Right! RIGHT!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

Isral pointed. "See, Stevens, the sharpened tops of the stockade; logs
half buried, upright, ten feet out of the ground showing, so close
together that a rabbit couldn't squeeze through. We're safe here from
any animal or man, I think."

"I see," said Stevens, shifting his rucksack. "It's most ingenious. But
shouldn't you have sentries posted there by the gates?"

"We usually do," said Isral, puzzled. "I don't understand--" He broke
off sharply as his eyes caught something. "Thundering heavens! _The
gate's open!_ Somebody's going to catch hell from the judges for this.
Come on!" he shouted at the straggling column of men carrying, in a
sort of palanquin cage, the live deer they had gone so far South to
capture. "I can't understand it," he mused fretfully as he and Stevens
and Markett ran on the double. They halted before the picketed gate and
Markett wrinkled her nose. "What's that smell?" she asked.

Stevens grimaced at the foul stench that drifted over the high
palisade, and turned to Isral for an answer. The Heber had forced his
face into lines of composure, but beneath his weather-beaten tan, his
skin was white with shock. "Fever," he said, pushing open the gate.
"But twice before it has come, and both times we were able to combat
it. Now--look--" Hopelessly he stretched forth his hand, and Stevens
turned his head.

There was a long street of neat little houses, log houses, punctuated
here and there by little shops of artisans. At the end of the street
was a meeting-hall on which, in wood contrasting with the rough,
unfinished logs on the outside, was nailed the six-pointed star, tribal
symbol of the Hebers. But the pottery wheels and grindstones and forges
before the shops were untended, and there was no smoke of cooking from
the neat little chimneys of the houses. Lying in the street, or half
hidden in doorways, were drawn, gaunt figures, women, children and old
people.

With a little cry of alarm, Markett bent over the form of a child and
felt its pulse and skin. "Still alive," she said anxiously. "How do you
combat this?"

"A kind of berry," replied Isral. "But there were none growing this
year when we left. They were small and bitter."

"I know the general type," said Markett. "The bark does just as well,
if you soak it in water. Have you any of the wood about?"

"Here," replied the Heber, pointing to a bush outside the gate. "This
is the kind that grows the berries. And there are others in the
forest." He turned to the bearers. "You!" he barked. "Go pull up every
fever-bush you can find and bring it here. You, Samel, draw clean water
from the Old Well and fill some tubs. Wash them first. You three, dig a
trench. Some of our people are past any service save that."

"That settles it," broke in Stevens grimly. "You can't live here any
longer."

"Why not, friend?" asked Isral, his eyes on the men who were carrying
out his orders.

"This sort of thing might strike you any moment. To save those who are
still here, we have to kill every fever-bush by uprooting and stripping
the bark. How many people live here?"

"There are about two thousand in this suburb. Of these, one thousand
may already have died; others have fled to our other cities and towns.
In them, if the plague has not been spread; and we have means of
keeping it down if there is time for warning; we have seventy thousands
in all."

"Seventy thousand," Stevens whispered to himself. Then, with a great
roar, he cried: "We'll do it!"

"What?"

"Go South--all of us, men, women and children. We can do it
easily--take the city from which I fled and live there, peacefully and
healthily."

Isral stared at him. "How can we take a great city of the South?"

"Isral," answered Stevens, "you don't know what has happened to men in
the great cities. They have become soft and helpless. A score of them,
all armed, came after me, and fled at the first sign of opposition. A
band of determined infants could take the city, for these city-dwellers
are incapable of violence. What do you say to that, friend?"

"I say," declared Heber slowly, "that we'll do it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Historian faced the little group of men, sweeping the small room
with a glance. "Where's Denning?" he asked.

The General Practitioner coughed. "The Rightmen got him," he said.
"Since Alfreed linked up the entire scientific council with what he
calls the subversives, none of us have been able to appear in public
safely. Denning's apartment was raided last night and I think he's been
liquidated."

The Neuro-specialist drummed the table-top nervously. "It's incredible
the way this psychopathia has spread all over the city. In three short
months Alfreed and his followers have become so powerful that they do
not need to intimidate opposition; they're a majority."

"You're wrong there," said the Historian. "They make a lot of noise.
But the investigation has shown--well, let's hear it from first hand
sources. Would you please repeat what you told me this morning,
Gallacher?"

A tall, thin man arose. "Despite appearance to the contrary," he
began, "Alfreed has only succeeded in winning over a certain part of
the population. Those people who have succumbed, and become Rightmen,
are those whose social position has been such as to require a minimum
training in social consciousness and responsibility, those whose
functions are such to require the minimum application of intelligence.

"These people, despite the facilities that the city offers, have been
leading very narrow, cramped lives. Their emotional attainment has been
very low, frustrated in many cases. Thus, the terrific emotional appeal
of Alfreed's insane program has swept them away, made them willing
followers."

"What," asked the Practitioner, "has been the actual range of violence
and intimidation on the part of the Rightmen?"

"Enough to have a demoralizing effect upon the city as a whole. In
fact, enough to make many feel insecure to such an extent that they
would join the Rightmen sheerly for self-protection. The cases of
violence against citizens, although still small in number, have been
increasing, and have been sufficiently ferocious to paralyze, almost
completely, any attempt at public opposition."

"Quite right," agreed the Historian. "You were correct in one sense,"
he said to the Neuro-specialist. "Alfreed does not _need_ a majority to
win an election, or to seize power now. He can either intimidate the
citizens into voting for him, or to refrain from voting at all."

"What has been done to combat Alfreed, without using his own methods,
of course?" asked an engineer.

"Rightmen have been captured by the ambulance squads, interrogated,
then treated with Regulators. The interesting thing is that, once
removed from Alfreed's influence, they return to normal very quickly,
and a bit of Regulating makes them permanently immune."

"The difficulty is," he went on, "that, so far, the psychopathia has
spread more quickly than the antidote. What we must do is set machines
to capture the Rightmen, Alfreed in particular, and regulate them. We
cannot afford to use violence ourselves because of the deadly effects
it has upon those involved in its use."

The Historian nodded. "We must move quickly," he stated, "because I
greatly think that Alfreed will make an open bid for full power very
shortly. Unless there is something else to come up, gentlemen, I
suggest we adjourn and get to work."

       *       *       *       *       *

A tent camp for women, children and the animals had been pitched far
outside the city, and the forty-thousand armed men of Heber were
swinging down one of the great, out-moded superhighways which led into
the city. Overhead circled spotting planes, a vivid red in hue, marked
with symbols strange to the Hebers, and even to Markett and Stevens.
"Something must have happened in the city," the girl hazarded. They
could see it not far off, and from it issued along the highway men
marching in ragged file, with none of the snap and precision of the
Hebers.

"Fools!" spat Stevens. "If they want to reduce our numbers why don't
they drop weights from those planes?" Markett was shocked. "That's a
very clever idea," she said. "I wonder that nobody's thought of it
before."

"They haven't the military mind," said Stevens. "Such things do not
occur to them." The men from the city were drawing nearer; calmly the
Hebers unshipped their weapons, front ranks armed with spring-bows,
rear ranks with throwing darts and the savage backswords that could cut
down a grizzly bear in midcharge.

An especially large plane roared overhead, and, from it, thundered a
great voice. "Halt your forces!"

"Dr. Alfreed!" cried Markett. "That little fool's trying to order us
around."

"Ignore that," advised Stevens. "Go straight ahead. Meet that mob and
you won't find any resistance worth speaking of."

"I have arranged for everything," said Isral serenely. "Quarter will
be given when asked; corpses will not be mutilated, and no vengeance
for our own casualties will be taken once resistance has stopped. We
will accept them as equals once we have the city in our hands." He
fell silent and the tension grew as the two armies marched toward one
another at a steady gait. The huge red plane of Dr. Alfreed yawped
hysterical injunctions at the advancing Hebers, who didn't even look up.

Then, suddenly, there was a brief exchange of throwing-weapons and the
armies made contact. Automatically they split up into groups, clubbing
and slashing. Stevens waded into the thick of it, swinging a broadsword
He was startled to see that all the enemy were wearing vivid red shorts
and bandoliers and were uniformly armed with heavy, short clubs.
Remembering the timorous party that had first sought to kill him, he
was dazed at the savagery with which the city men came to attack, with
a suicidal disregard for their own safety and lives.

Further speculation he could not indulge in, for he was hard-pressed
by a piquet of men who charged with strange cries of "_Right for
Alfreed!_" One he spitted on his point; another's legs were cut away
from beneath him, and a third landed a wild blow on Stevens' shoulder
before the sizzling sweep of the backsword cut him down.

Stevens' head was curiously clear in the midst of the turmoil. With a
mental start, he realized that something had happened; that this sort
of thing no longer seemed glorious. He was not afraid; he saw it as
a necessity, but now he realized that his only desire was to get it
over with as soon as possible and have done with violence and fighting
fellow men. Mechanically he fell in line with a spearhead of Hebers
and worked his way along it to the apex; there he stayed, slashing
and parrying till a concerted attack from behind dissolved it into
skirmishing knots of men.

But now, from the city, came forth things that made the warriors gasp
in amazement. Metal cylinders, upright, wheeled, each equipped with
tentacle-like projections. They bore down upon the fray, plunging into
the ranks of the red-clad fighters. For a moment, Stevens thought
them to be reinforcements, but, now, he saw that the machines were
for another purpose. The tentacles lashed out and seized the red-clad
warriors firmly, yet, it appeared, carefully, so as not to do them
harm, and, when their arms were full, turned and made back for the city.

[Illustration: _Long tentacles reached out and seized the red-clad
warriors, bearing full loads of them back into the city._]

Stevens swung wide of a head that bobbed, and a red club came down on
his head, while another crashed into his ear. The world spun around,
then the ground reached up and struck him sharply. And, suddenly, it
was night.

"Hold your head up," said a voice.

Stevens opened his eyes. "Markett," he whispered. "What is it?"

"Concussion. You've been unconscious for three days. And what days!"
She rolled her eyes.

"Exciting? What happened?"

"We were on the verge of losing the battle--they had us
outnumbered--when the pursuit machines attacked the Rightmen--that's
what the red-clad fighters are called. That completely demoralized
them, and they broke and fled back toward the city. We were almost too
amazed to know what to do, but Isral ordered us on, so we advanced
after them. When we were almost upon the entrance, a voice came through
calling me."

"You?"

"Yes. The council was watching the whole affair through tele-screens
in the control room. They asked us what we wanted, who we were, and
so forth. Isral and I explained, and they offered to take us in if we
would lay down our weapons and promise to come peacefully; if we did
not, they said they had a sort of gas which would make us all lose
consciousness."

"So you agreed?"

"Certainly. You see, they explained about the Rightmen, too. The people
we were fighting are not the city's army; they were a sort of club
taking orders from Dr. Alfreed. A historian told me that it was what
you call a dictatorship. They had seized control of the city (although
the council had escaped and continued to work opposition, preparing
the pursuit machines, etc.) and were beating down the people, not
allowing any freedom of speech, so when they saw that we were losing,
the people came out and attacked the Rightmen from behind. At the same
time the pursuit machines came out, because, of course, no one except
the council knew that there was a weapon which could be used against
Alfreed's army.

"It was really the citizens who won because there were not enough of
the pursuit machines to beat the Rightmen; all they could do was to
create confusion in the Rightmen ranks, and work demoralization by
carrying off fighters."

Stevens was silent for a moment, then: "What happened to the
Rightmen--those who weren't killed?"

"They were Regulated, Alfreed among them, and all came out sane again."

"And Isral--the Hebers?"

"Doing fine; they're going into arts and crafts, something which the
Chief Historian says has been a lost function with us. We needed them
badly."

He scratched his head. "Somehow," he said, "I feel different. I'm not
the old, frightened Clark Stevens that I once was; and I'm not the man
I was when I first ran away with you.

"I want to live here, in the city. Yet I'm still not satisfied with it.
It has to be changed."

He broke off as the Neuro-specialist came in. "Hello," he said, "what's
up?"

"'Lo, Stevens," replied the man. "Feeling all right?"

"Yes."

"We want you on the council. There was a faction that wanted to
regulate you again, but most of us agree that we need men of your kind
here, so long as they're not extremists. You seem to have levelled off
to just the right point to make you valuable."

He nodded. "Strange, Clement, but I feel the same about you fellows. At
one time, I thought you were all fit for scrapping, but now I see that
the city needs you as much as it does me. I think that's the answer: we
need all kinds of people; no one kind can be permitted to dominate, but
no one kind can be suppressed, either."

"Of course," said Markett. "After that one big burst of violent battle,
you worked the ego of Roald the Viking almost completely out of your
psychology. Only the part that I like, that I love, is left--and I
think that will stay put."

Stevens reached out and took her hand.

"I--I'd like to wear cloth again instead of leather, Clark." Markett
said--and both men laughed.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REGULATOR ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
