The Project Gutenberg eBook of Tomorrow the World!, by Geoff St. Reynard

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Tomorrow the World!

Author: Geoff St. Reynard

Release Date: July 23, 2021 [eBook #65902]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TOMORROW THE WORLD! ***




                          TOMORROW THE WORLD!

                         By Geoff St. Reynard

                Can the past affect the future? What if
              you remembered to the dawn of time when you
             hated man and decided to destroy him--today!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                            September 1952
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


It was like a cave, a great vaulted cave which echoed back my first
hesitant movements on the slab and tossed them from wall to wall until
the darkness about me was all one vast rustling. I felt my skin prickle
into gooseflesh. In that moment of waking I was oddly frightened. I had
no memory of location. I might have been in a subterranean grotto, with
enormous stalagmites of supergrotesque shape rising all about me in
the thick gloom.

I sat up. The slab was cold beneath me. Directly in front of it towered
a thing like a nightmare skeleton of stone.

It was just that: the fossil of a duckbilled dinosaur. I had gone to
sleep on a marble bench in the palaeontology room of the museum.

I laughed. The panic that had touched me was gone, and I felt ashamed
of myself. Not for falling asleep, because I had been very tired; but
ashamed of the fear.

Lord knew how long I had slept. It was black night without and within,
and no sound save that of my own movements came to me. The museum must
have been closed for hours. The guards had missed me on my bench behind
the dinosaur. I stood and shook myself and smoothed the rumpled suit,
and began to grope my way between exhibits toward the entrance hall. I
left the reptilian skeletons behind--not without a certain relief, for
they were awesome sleepers to pass among--and was striding down a dim
pathway between glass cases when I heard the footsteps.

A watchman was coming toward me. I could see the reflection of his
flashlight. I halted indecisively, growled at myself, and went on. I
had a perfectly valid excuse for being there. They could hardly do
anything to me.

The guard was big, about my size, and his flash jumped in his hand when
he saw me. Then he hurried forward. I grinned into the glare.

"Sorry to scare you--"

"What the hell you doing here, bud?"

I did not like him in the least. "I fell asleep in the bone room. Just
woke up."

"That's what they say, bud, that's what they say." He was breathing in
my face. I do not care for secondhand hamburg with onions. "Who are
you?"

"Bill Cuff, I write for the adventure mags, maybe you've seen my yarns."

"No, I ain't. How come you fell asleep, bud?"

"Cuff," I said, "Bill Cuff. I was knocked out. I mean I was tired. Been
working nights on a piece that doesn't want to jell."

"That's what they say, bud." I was getting good and sick of that line.
Three times was more than enough. He didn't think so. "That's what they
say. Fell asleep, huh? In a room full o' jewelry that'd bring a nice
price even if you melted it down. Relics. We got a brooch over there
that Napoleon gave to Catherine of Aragon. Make a nice haul by itself."

"I dare say, especially as she died some centuries before he was born.
A unique bit of trinketry indeed." I disliked this guard more with
each word. "You knucklehead," I said, "I told you I fell asleep. I was
looking for a watchman just now."

"That's what they say. You come on with me. We got to see a cop, bud."

"For the love of--I can identify myself. Here's my driver's license."

"Stole, probably. We've had sneak-thieves in here before. You come on
with me, bud."

I counted ten. "Cuff, Bill Cuff." His stupidity, his dark stolid bulk
behind the persistent flashlight were angering me. "All right, lets see
a cop."

He gripped my arm. "I don't like to be touched and handled." I said. I
knocked his hand off. "Here, here," he yelped, "don't get tough or I'll
have to rough you up a little."

He clutched my arm again. A scarlet curtain of rage shut down over my
senses. I reached out and took his throat between my hands, dragged
him to my chest, tightened my fingers and pressed and twisted till
his flashlight dropped to the stone floor and went out with a pitiful
tinkle. There in the unbroken dark of the deserted museum I held him
until he was dead, until his head was turned over his shoulder and his
popping eyes stared sightlessly down his backbone. Then I threw him
into a case of snuff boxes, and went on to the entrance and let myself
out and walked away down the moonlit street.




                              CHAPTER II


For a long while I walked alone with my cold rage. It was, well,
most curious is a mild way to describe it. I had never been a man of
violence and fury. Only in my adventure yarns had I spread gore and
destruction abroad. I thought back over my twenty-eight years of life.
I didn't believe I had ever even hit anyone before tonight. Yet I had
taken enormous pleasure in the wanton brutality. Even after my anger
had died, I felt no regret whatever for the murder of the guard. He had
been a stupid _man_.

I found myself wondering about that after I had said it half-aloud. I
didn't know why I had put the emphasis on _man_. You might have thought
I was a woman.

Going aimlessly up one street and down another, now staring ahead
and now gazing up at the full moon riding in its field of India-ink
sky, I eventually saw that I was near the museum again. Some obscure
curiosity took me past its doors. Just as I passed them, craning my
neck foolishly as though I could see through their oak and bronze, half
a dozen men burst out into the street. Automatically I speeded my pace.
Then they yelled, and were after me. I ran.

What smirking fate had pushed me back to the damned place? From my
position on the sidewalk, my attitude of looking intently at the doors,
my haste thereafter, they had leaped to the thought that I had just
emerged from the museum. I thought of fingerprints, of all kinds of
clues I might have left behind. I ran like a spooked steer.

Reason left me. I caught the last wisp of a fleeting amazement: could
this murderous, panicky creature be Bill Cuff, hitherto a sane and
sober pulp writer?

I turned a corner, vaulted over a hedge and flung myself prone behind
it. The pursuers--museum guards, for evidently the police had not
arrived--pounded by, yelling to each other. When they had gone I darted
over to the building that shadowed this plot of earth, kicked in a
window, knocked away shards of glass from the frame and let myself down
into the basement of the museum. Swiftly I blundered my way between
work-benches and unfinished exhibits until I had found the door. Down
a long black hall I padded, snorting through my nose and peering back
frequently. Like a beast, said a tiny voice in the depths of my brain;
like a stalked beast.

I found a door, steps that led upward. I passed the first floor and
then the second. My shins were barked, my nose bled from a smack
against an unseen wall. I licked the blood off my lips. The stairs
ended and I was on the third floor. Here the moon slanted its cool
rays into the windows, unhampered by nearby buildings. I could see
quite well. My feet seemed to know where they were going. I passed
through the hall of mammals, glancing aside at the dusty elephants,
the two giraffes in their great cage of glass, the family of sea lions
frozen forever in attitudes of stuffy majesty. My leather heels tapped
loudly in the thick silence. I bent and took off my shoes, stuffing
them into the pockets of my coat. Then I came to the central well, and
leaning over the balcony I looked down at the hall of dinosaurs. Their
bizarre frames were jagged splotches of black in a lesser blackness.
Then the lights went up on their floor, and as I, two stories above,
drew back my head with an involuntary snarl, guards hurried across
the floor between the fossils, calling back and forth. I heard them
say something about the broken window. I had trapped myself. I did
not consider that important. Something in me knew I was heading for
sanctuary.

I thrust my head over the railing again, like a fox on a cliff
regarding a pack of hounds at fault. Chance made one of the hounds peer
upward. There was a loud shout from below as the guard saw me.

Dashing along the passage between rail and wall, I entered the art
gallery, traversed it, and came to the geology hall. Here was a replica
of a Pennsylvania cavern, through which visitors could wander to
gawk at stalactites and artificial springs and plaster-and-plastic
underworld creatures--dead-white salamanders, strange little blind
bugs, crawling unnamed worms stuck to the synthetic rock with hidden
adhesives. I dived through the mouth of this weird exhibit, bruising
myself heedlessly; rounded heaps of faked stone, scraped skin off my
knuckles as I fended off obstacles that seemed to hurl themselves
at me in the murk, at last came to the back of the cave and turned
and squatted there on my hams, fingertips trailing against the cool
hardness of the sham rock floor.

The moon was dropping; now it looked in a window opposite the cave,
finding its way between the icicle forms of stalactites, just grazing
my dark blue suit here and there. I bent my head and stared at the
ivory huntress of the skies. Her full round belly was gravid with
portent. I felt that all sorts of shattering events were shaping within
her, that something alien and terrible and withal glorious was about to
be born.




                              CHAPTER III


I could hear no sounds of pursuit as yet. I thought back over the
past half hour. I still experienced no shred of remorse. The man had
deserved to die. He had laid hands on me without provocation. He had
been stupid. He had been a _man_.

Again that odd emphasis stirred a wonder in my mind, which vanished
before I could grip it. I looked about me at what I could discern of
the artificial cavern. I felt at home here. Then my memory played me
a trick. I thought I had been in this place before, with others of my
kind (my kind? what the hell?), and we had squatted thus and hearkened
to the hunting cries of great carnivores and of--I grasped too quickly
and too consciously for the rest of the thought and it was gone. But I
could have sworn that I was going to remember the blood-roaring of a
band of men.

What the hell, indeed! Had my wild adventure tales got under my skin
and turned me lunatic?

That idea lasted for about a breath and a half. I knew I was cold sane.
So, coldly and sanely, I groped in my memory for whatever experience I
had turned up a fragment of. It was dim but it was certainly there, a
scene painted in faded oils on dark canvas. I was in a cave with others
of my kind, hulking broad-chested shapes in the gloom, and outside rose
the howling of our pursuers. I felt the hair bristle on my neck and
my forehead creased with rage. Then the lights went on in the geology
hall, dispelling the picture.

I curled myself down behind the biggest of the stalagmites. I was
wholly in shadow. I lay perfectly still, and my heart slowed its beat
so that the blood hissed more quietly in my ears and I could hear with
wonderful clarity. Guards spoke nearby. They were searching for me,
checking methodically through every cranny of the hall. I flexed my
fingers. A silent chuckle shook me.

One came cautiously to the entrance of the cave and bent and stared
futilely. I saw him glance around for his companions, then advance
slowly into the place. When he was nearly above me I rose as swiftly as
a panther. He had no time to drag in breath for a yell. I clamped his
mouth tight with one hand, broke his neck with the other. It was done
beautifully. In that moment I found pride in my perfect coordination,
in my excellence as a killing machine as deadly as a king cobra. I laid
him down in shadow. I traded my coat for his uniform jacket, which was
too snug in the shoulders but fitted well enough otherwise. I put on my
shoes and his visored cap and walked out of the cave. I went along the
aisle, face averted from the other guards, and found a stair well and
slipped into it.

Up went the hue and cry before I was halfway down!

I leaped to the second floor entrance, feeling their eyes already on my
back as I passed through it, and went loping for the nearest window, a
tall square of moontouched glittering. I hurled the thing open, swung
onto the sill, and launched myself into space without even looking at
the ground. It rushed up at me. As naturally as a cat might have done
it, I landed on toes and fingers. Then I was running.

No shouts broke out behind me. They had not seen my leap. I shed the
jacket and cap as I ran. Then I remembered my coat, lying across the
dead guard. No identification there--until they had time to check
dry-cleaner's marks. I had an hour or two at least.

I headed for my hotel, a dingy, half-respectable pile on the edge of
the downtown district. An hour to pack, and I would be on my way. There
was something, or someone, calling to me from a great distance. I did
not know what it was nor where.

My instincts would carry me to it. I wasted no time in wondering. I let
my mind slip out of gear, put my whole energy into my traveling.

When I had run far enough, I found an owl cab and let it carry me the
rest of the distance. It seemed oddly alien to me to trust to anything
but my own powerful legs; but I forced myself to sit back and let the
civilized habits of Bill Cuff take the upper hand. _I_ would rest for a
little while.




                              CHAPTER IV


As I stuffed things into my big battered Gladstone I found myself
changing.

A cryptic statement, that, and one which requires explanation; yet how
can I say just what it was like, this metamorphosis? At first I was the
same creature that had crouched behind the false stalagmite and slain
the guard, then had leaped from the second-story window to flee into
the night. This was a--I was about to say a wholly physical being. That
isn't true. There was brainwork of a sort behind its actions, but an
alien brainwork. Could you understand the thoughts of an ape? Could you
describe them if you did?

At any rate, I slid away from this physical being, imperceptibly,
until Bill Cuff the prosaic pulpster seemed in the ascendant. Touching
familiar things: my typewriter, sport shirts, cigarette lighter, a
stack of manuscript--appeared to bring me back to what had all my life
been normality.

Yet this creates the portrait of a sort of Jekyll-Hyde personality, an
extreme example of schizophrenia. I would not have you believe this for
a moment. I was not two souls warring in a single body, nor a lunatic
of any sort.

No. I was not two people. I was a sleeper who had awakened in a manner
not explained, not understood, but acceptable at once as quite natural.
I found myself in a body which I had already been occupying for
twenty-eight years and two months and seven days. There was no other
personality in this body with me. The body was mine. The mind therein,
fully developed along its own lines, was my mind.

The body and mind were mine, but the _I_--the older _I_--which had
wakened was of somewhat different stuff. It had taken the body and mind
(perhaps while I slept on the marble bench, perhaps during the brief
argument with the guard), merging with them and dominating them. Yet
the dual brain, the single body with new proclivities, were one, were
all Bill Cuff. They differed but they were one.

I have said that before this night I had never even struck anyone. Yet
there had always been the possibility that I might; might strike and
slay, go berserk as I had now done. I had written many tales of brutal
violence. Without my knowledge, there had been the seeds of savagery
within me. They had flowered.

I looked in the mirror. I saw a well-set-up young fellow, a little
broader than average for my six feet, heavy-boned, not much excess fat.
My face was broad too, with high cheekbones and a small mustache and
wide gray eyes, under an unruly thatch of thick black hair. I had a
rather unintellectual look for a writer; it had always annoyed me. But
I didn't look brutal. I had a sort of mild-mannered air, like a wider
Jimmy Stewart.

       *       *       *       *       *

In all that night I never questioned anything for more than a second
or two until I came to pack my belongings. Then the lifelong habits
and prejudices came back to make me ask myself for an accounting. No
remorse, nor fear, nor any such weak emotions; simply curiosity at the
changes.

What is it, I asked myself; reincarnation?

That would explain many things, including the paradox of two
individuals in one--who were not two, had never been two, yet were
different.

Postulate a gorilla, reborn in a man. His racial memories come to life
after a certain period of time. He is still a man, has the reasoning
ability of a man, is thoroughly Homo sapiens in everything, except
that suddenly he can swing through the trees and can think in a manner
strange to man--a furtive, sly, cunning, beastly way, if you like, but
a way that will help to preserve him even in the stone jungles of man.

As I said this to myself, I caught at one phrase therein. _Swing
through the trees._

It was obvious that my physical powers had undergone a terrific
change. I did not remember my hands ever being so powerful before.
Never, certainly, had my reflexes been so flawless. Why, take but
one instance: my leap from the second floor of the museum. That leap
yesterday would more than likely have cost me two fractured ankles.

Superstitiously I looked in the mirror again and felt my muscles. Had
they grown overnight, bulging out into the great biceps of whatever
primitive entity had emerged within me? So far as I could tell, they
were just my old muscles--not bad for a writer, because I swam a lot
and did calisthenics regularly, but surely no marvels as muscles go.
The change appeared to be in my use of them. Instinctively I could
employ them in the most effective way. What could that be but a racial
memory acting beneath the surface of the skin?

Other implausible explanations of the business occurred to me as I
packed. I discarded them. Nothing seemed to fit except the abrupt
return of a personality from eons ago, some great brute out of my
lineage. That chimed with the curious recollection I had had in the
cave, and with the accent I had several times put upon the word _man_
to describe my enemies. A gorilla? I laughed to myself. An intriguing
thought, indeed! I did not for a minute believe it. But what?




                               CHAPTER V


I caught the five A.M. train for another big city--never mind which. I
had about two hundred dollars in my wallet, a fair selection of clothes
and essentials in my Gladstone, and the portable typewriter in its
beat-up case. For a while I was well enough provided for. I settled
back in the reclining chair, watched the dawn come up beyond the
windows of the train, and listened with half an ear to the whispering
voice that was calling to me from the unknown.

An hour passed. I was drowsing, comfortably, my eyes shut. Then in
an instant I was wide awake. Someone was watching me. I felt their
gaze through my eyelids. As though moving in my sleep I turned myself
around, opened my eyes the merest slit. It was the girl across
the aisle. I observed her carefully. She was a pretty blonde, and
yesterday's Bill Cuff would have been flattered to find her regarding
him. Not I! A steady regard was a menacing thing.

I made sure she was alone. Then I opened my eyes wide and said, "Do I
know you?" It flustered her. She turned pink and said confusedly, "I--I
don't think so!"

I had one of those singular picture-thoughts, that seemed to come and
go unbidden in my mind. I saw another female of this girl's race, whom
I had taken from her people. I had desired her deeply, and later had
trusted her more than I should.

_She had betrayed me to her kin, and I had died._

For a moment I considered killing this woman. There were too many men
all about us; I should have to flee instead. I stood up, gathered my
Gladstone and typewriter, gave her a long hard look, and went forward
to the next coach. She must have been completely baffled.

After a few minutes I grew restless. I was enclosed by the walls of
this conveyance, and vulnerable to attack. We came into a small
city. The train left it, moving slowly. I suppose it was waiting for
another train some distance ahead to be shunted off its track. I could
stand the confinement no longer. I put my machine under my left arm,
took the Gladstone in my left hand. (Always leave one hand free for
emergencies.) I went out to the platform between the cars. A conductor
was standing there counting tickets.

"Shouldn't change cars with all that luggage, sir," he said. "Train
rocks a good deal and it's dangerous."

       *       *       *       *       *

He took a step toward me. I put up my hand to tear out his throat and
realized that he was simply going to pass by. I pressed against the
wall. He went into the next car. I would have to watch myself. Needless
killing at this stage of my flight would only complicate matters. I
swung down to the last step, waited for a level stretch of cindery
earth, and dropped off. The train was going perhaps twenty-five miles
an hour. I lit as easily, as safely as a leopard bounding from a tree.
I began to think there was nothing I could not accomplish in the way of
strength and agility.

I walked back into the small city. Instinctively I sought the lower
districts--not Skid Row, but the tenements and cheap hotels of the
poor. I took a room in one of the latter. I barricaded the door and put
up a makeshift burglar alarm on the window sill: a couple of glasses,
a water pitcher, other objects, all perched precariously on the edge so
that nothing could come in without knocking them off and rousing me.
Then I crawled into bed and slept for twelve hours.

In the evening I had a meal and the papers sent up to me. I read them
while I chewed on leathery steak coated with half-congealed grease, and
tiny potatoes as appetizing as the boiled eyes of iguanas.

The papers had it all. My name, life story, photos, even a list of
the magazines for which I had written. Brutal Slayings ... Writer
on Rampage ... Have You Seen This Man ... all the rest of the trite
screamers.

Then I came to the local paper. It was thought I might be here. It was
thought that the man who acted so strangely on the west-bound train
that morning, and who vanished at a point several miles out of town,
might have been Cuff the Murderer. Descriptions tallied. Tentative
identification had been made from telephotos. My lip lifted in a silent
snarl. The hounds were baying close.

I dressed and shaved off my mustache. I put on dark glasses and went
out to a bar. The liquor tasted like water from a goldfish bowl. I
walked the streets. About midnight a policeman gave me a second look,
then called questioningly. I waited until he came to me, and then with
savage glee I put him across my knee and broke his back.

I went to the hotel and stored up some more sleep, like an animal,
preparing for the time when I should be fleeing or fighting around the
clock.




                              CHAPTER VI


It was some two hours before sunrise. I was dressing, packing
leisurely. There was a knock at the door.

My light was on. I could not pretend to be asleep. "What is it?"

"Police sir. We're checking for a wanted man. Will you open up, please?"

I threw the last of my stuff into the Gladstone and shoved it under
the bed. Putting my ear to the panel of the door, I listened for their
breathing. There were two of them, and probably more within call,
checking other rooms where a single man was registered. I tipped the
shade of the lamp so that my face would be in shadow, and opened the
door. They walked in, one of them diffident, the other as insolent as a
thug, with his hand on his holstered revolver.

The second would be the less dangerous, I thought; he would be faster
to draw that gun but more stupid in his reactions to a surprise than
the other, who looked the more intelligent. So as they entered, turning
to face me, I pushed the door shut with my heel and let the smart, shy
one have a quick jab on the angle of his jaw to quiet him for a time.
That left me the tough boy, and I looked forward to a good time with
him.

He was fast on the draw. His gun was not buttoned down and it fairly
flew out to cover me. I am big and make a fine target. His eyes were
squinting at my chest where he expected to shoot me and he never saw my
foot come off the floor. The gun exploded out of his broken hand and
skidded across the room.

He was full of guts. He came at me with his one good hand and his knees
and even his teeth. I did not want to be marked. I kept my face away
from him and let him hit me twice in the stomach. Then I caught his
wrist and flying-mared him over my shoulder. The crack of his skull
against the wall was a burst of sharp sweet music. I grinned wide. Then
I bent over the other policeman. I had hit him more scientifically than
I had known. He wouldn't get up any more.

That made five.

Five murders! Five killings, using no weapons, just my hands, for five
violent homicides!

       *       *       *       *       *

I stood there in the center of that room, which I had made a gory
shambles, and for the first (and last) time remorse touched me. I was
Bill Cuff, law-abiding writer; if not exactly an altruistic dweller
by the side of the road and friend to man, at least I had always been
a normally decent guy who would go to a lot of trouble to keep from
hurting anybody. What had happened to me?

A voice inside me said, _But you are only killing men._

_Men?_ But I'm a man, damn it all!

No, you aren't.

What am I, an orangutan? I asked myself with heavy sarcasm.

No, not that. No more kin to ape than to man.

An extraterrestrial, then, descendant of a flying saucer pilot?

No, not that either.

I put my face in my hands. Oh for the love of God, what am I then? What
am I?

I knew I wasn't a man and I didn't know what I was.

The thing that was me, that had lain dormant until twenty-six hours
before, and then had waked and taken over its rightful inheritance
which was my body and my mind, what _was_ it?

I didn't know what it was. But I knew a few things about it. It had
once crouched in a cave with others of its breed, to listen to the
angry yelling of hunting men. It had once stolen a human she and
mated with her, and been killed by her treachery. It was master to an
incredible degree of its sense and muscular equipment, even of its
heart, which it could slew at will, and of its breathing, which it
could stop entirely for fantastic periods of time.

It was rising in me now and it was I. Remorse died forever. Human
traits and sentiments died that I could no longer remember ever
harboring. I was I and though I did not yet know exactly what I was, I
knew it was no fit of madness that had taken possession of me, no devil
of the olden times to be driven out by exorcism, no second personality
to land me in an asylum; but the soul that had come down through untold
centuries hidden in my genes, traveling its recondite course through
blood and flesh and brain matter until it woke again to conscious life
in Bill Cuff in the early autumn of 1952.

The pictures I had seen thus far were racial memory, remembrance of
a dawn world, and I knew there would be more of them. I would hold
patience in my hands and wait till time brought full recall.




                              CHAPTER VII


I pulled my Gladstone from below the bed, strapped and locked it.
Then for a moment I stared at my typewriter. It was doubtful that I
would ever use her again, and she'd make an extra burden which I could
scarcely afford to carry with me. I hated the thought of someone else's
fingers on her keys. I had loved that cranky, faithful old mill. I
opened her case and raising the machine above my head brought her face
down onto a bedpost. Two crashes were plenty. They'd never repair my
old girl now. I put her gently on the bed.

"Sleep well, lady." I said, and was obscurely glad to find that my
metamorphosed self could still be whimsically sentimental.

I brushed the water glasses off the window sill, threw up the sash and
climbed onto the fire escape, Gladstone in hand. I took off my felt hat
and skimmed it out and down; it fell in the middle of the alley where
anyone would be sure to see it. Then I climbed upward until I reached
the roof. They would suppose I had lost my hat while running away down
the alley.

Leaving the fire escape, brushing its flaky rust from my palm, I
walked across the flat roof. The moon, very low in the gray-black sky,
showed me the age-battered forms of chimneys and ventilators, with a
shack-like structure looming foursquare among them: the entrance to the
hotel. I thought of waiting till the searchers hared off on my false
trail, then leaving by this obvious route. No good: my face and build
were becoming too well known. I looked about me, deciding what to do.

And it seemed to me that I was not on the roof of a dingy third-rate
hotel in an American city, but somewhere entirely different.

The cries of pursuers echoed in my brain. I was crouching amid tall
buttress-tops, gargoyled rainspouts, coned tower-peaks; ancient tiles
were slippery beneath my feet. I was scrambling round the roof of a
castle, or at least what seemed a massive and castle-like building.
Peering over the edge of the gutter, I could make out the sheen of
moon-silvered water lying far below, with tiny wind-ripples on its
surface. A moat?

No weapons were in my hands. I was hunted by fierce enemies. Yet I
was not afraid. I was only hideously angry. I longed to get at them,
but there were too many. Just let them come three or four at a time,
armed however they wished, and I would meet them. But no, they must
needs draw their game in great packs of howling humanity. Humans! How I
loathed them!

What was I? I was myself, Bill Cuff, some centuries before. My vision
was strangely two-fold. I could see the sooty hotel chimneys and could
realize where I stood, and at the same time I was again creeping round
among the gables and towers of the medieval castle. I could hear the
cries of my seekers. A word was repeated over and over until it stood
out from all the hubbub.

_Vampire ... vampire ... vampire...._

I knew I was no such thing. The undead--a superstition.

But they _thought_ me a vampire. I had slain and slain, brutally,
and--yes, and lapped up blood from torn throats, hot and bubbling
between my lips. Was I a vampire? Were my kind the origin of that
legend?

       *       *       *       *       *

The race-recollection died away. I heard the shouts of my twentieth
century foeman, who had found the two dead policemen. I walked to the
edge of the roof and gauged the distance to the next building, which
was several feet lower than this one. There was a gap of no more than
ten feet. I threw the suitcase across. Men appeared eighty feet below,
running through the alley. I watched them, leaning fearlessly over the
low parapet. Like single-minded hounds, they never looked up. I laughed
and gathered myself and jumped across the yawning void, alighting
easily on the next roof.

I was beginning to take a keen gratification in my agility. Even the
lifting of my Gladstone, the feel of sentient muscles gliding over one
another to apportion the work between them, gave me intense pleasure.
Thus must an animal feel when he moves about his small enterprises,
knowing his body will answer any call he cares to make upon it.

I crossed this roof and leaped again and crossed a third, and found
myself overlooking a wide street. The sky was growing more gray than
black, and the lamps were beginning to take on the futile appearance
they have in the half-light of earliest dawn. I wanted to put plenty of
distance between me and this city that was too aware of me within it.
There was a rickety ladder leading down the side to a fire escape. I
descended it one-handed, jumped to the metal framework, trotted-down
to the street. Cars lined it, and the third I checked was unlocked.
There are ways to start a car without the key. I hummed peacefully
out of town. The sun found me driving along a broad straight highway
between fields of shocked grain, singing a tuneless song. There was
happiness in the song, and hatred; and I thought suddenly that I was
happy because of the hatred, which I had found again after many years
of ignorance and futility.




                             CHAPTER VIII


I stopped on the crest of a knoll and got out of the car. Off to the
right lay the beginnings of a vast swampy tract of wilderness, green
and steaming in the early morning air. I had never known of it before,
had no idea of its name or nature, and yet I knew I had been heading
for it ever since I left the museum. Somewhere in its somber depths I
would find the voice that was calling to me.

I looked back the way I had come. I could see for miles. There was
nothing moving on the road but I had the feeling that pursuit was on
its way; there was a prickling at the nape of my neck that could not be
denied. Getting into the car again, I ran it to the edge of the knoll
opposite to the marsh. Stepping out, dragging my Gladstone after me, I
put my shoulder to the car's side and shoved it over. It hurtled down
and crashed into a tree at the bottom. Far beyond it, still shrouded
in the morning mists, was a town. My followers might presume I had
made for it. A primitive stratagem, the car, like the hat in the
alley--primitive, but perhaps effective.

It was wonderful in the swamp. A cool, damp efflux of greenness
emanated from the soggy earth, the watery pools and stretches of
quagmire, the moss-dripping trees and hummocks of sharp-speared coarse
grass. I hung my coat over my arm, swung along lithely, reveling in the
_green_ feel of things and in my own newfound brawn that made the heavy
Gladstone a feather in my hand. Unerringly my feet chose the swiftest,
safest path. I was a beast, with the simple pleasures of a beast,
hunted or not. And always before me sounded the strange and powerful
calling that drew me on and on, a far-wandering wolf returning to his
all-but-forgotten lair.

I had been in the marshland for about half an hour when I heard the
dogs. So far away as to be little more than a whisper in the brain,
their baying chilled my happiness in an instant. Dogs were old
implacable enemies....

I was running through a fen. Miry bog sucked at my naked feet,
stale-smelling sweat covered me, my face was lashed by the thorned
branches of a legion of trees that sprang from the rich muck of the
morass. Hounds gave tongue in a continuous chorus of hate, seemingly
all about me. I ran and ran. Now I could hear the thick shouts of men,
in a language that was foreign to me, though it had almost as many
gutturals and slurrings as my own speech.

I was of a very ancient race in these parts (wherever they were). My
people were classed as vermin, along with the dire wolf and the gray
ape and the last surviving remnants of the hyena tribe. Man hunted us
with his dogs, great vicious brutes with saber fangs.

       *       *       *       *       *

I burst through a screen of hanging moss and fell into a spongy patch
of swamp. I struggled, miring myself worse than ever. Then the dogs
were upon me, screeching their delight. Men followed them and ringed
the quagmire. Great satisfaction was on their faces as the boldest of
the dogs leaped forward to gash my upthrown arm.

"Haah," exulted their leader, and spat at me. "_Pict_...."

I shook away the horrible and haunting remembrance. I heard the hounds
of the twentieth century, perhaps a little closer than before.

So I had been a Pict! One of the aboriginal British men (or manlike
beings) who are supposed eventually to have bred and merged with Aryan
invaders and thereafter with the Scots. Was this the most ancient of
my racial memories--or were they recollections of former incarnations
of myself, my own individual soul? Whichever they were, and I knew they
were one or the other, was this the eldest of them? Or would my waxing
memory bring forth still earlier pictures?

If the Picts were subhuman, or even utterly nonhuman, and their uncanny
blood had come through the incredible cycle of the centuries to rise
anew in my veins, wouldn't that explain my war with the genus homo?

Surely it would!

I dropped the suitcase for a moment, standing quiet to hear the dogs.
Then I smacked fist into palm and laughed, a grim snarling bark of
merriment. "Pict!" I said aloud. "Pict, by the gods!"

And then, ages after the Picts, the strain had risen again and my
comrades and I had fought mankind in our bitter, blind, malignant
fashion--to be superstitiously regarded as evil spirits, the undead of
the vampire myth.

And, come to think of it, we were probably the origin of the grisly
werewolf illusion, too.

My chest swelled with a strange elated arrogance. This was the reason
I hated the humans, calling them _men_ in the accents of loathing. I
and my people were not of humanity; we were all those harried, despised
and feared creatures in human or nearhuman form, all who had fled down
the years and turned at bay and torn the throats from our would-be
butchers. Sometimes we must have mated with them, infusing our dark
strain into their pale stock. But blood ran in our veins and thoughts
coursed in our brains which were as alien to man as the blood and the
thoughts of tigers. But it is a proud if lonely thing to be a tiger....




                              CHAPTER IX


The hounds bayed on my trail, and the voice in my head called me
forward. I picked up the Gladstone and hastened on, following
an invisible path between oozing stretches of swamp under great
creeper-festooned oaks, never putting my feet on anything but firm
ground. I seemed closer to the earth than I had ever been. It spoke to
me, mystically, silently, and I knew where was footing and where was
treacherous bog. Even so a fox traverses new territory and never makes
a misstep.

I don't know how long I walked through the marshland. My thoughts were
busy, my heart was light and at the same time full of my hereditary
wrath, and always my ears were cocked for the sound of the dogs.

At last I realized that they were much closer. I was going fast, but
my route must have been deduced and short-cuts taken, on the chance
that the dogs could pick up my scent again. I began to run. The rank
hanging vegetation brushed my face, bringing a flash of that older
hunting scene to mind.

Suddenly--and I use that well-worn word in its strongest sense, for
never was anything more startlingly sudden--there was a man in the path.

I dropped the suitcase and sprang at him, reflexes acting without my
conscious volition. My surprise was overwhelming when he avoided my
leap with ease, and tripped me before I could turn. Then a number of
bodies hit me and pinned me to the mossy earth. With a roar I flung
them off, twisting and bounding to my feet. The first man stood near. I
feinted and as he dodged I changed the direction of my grasp and caught
him by one arm. Then he was above my head, held helpless by my right
hand. I faced the others--three of them, there were--and rasped, "One
move and he's dead." I wanted the respite of a second or two in which
to plan an attack. These were strong and tricky foemen.

The man aloft wriggled. I was holding him by the back of the belt. I
gave him a warning shake. "Lie quiet, little man," I said, "or I'll
chuck you into the ooze."

The three moved forward uncertainly. "Wait," he said to them, his voice
calm. Then he chuckled. I admired his nerve. "Big fellow," he said to
me, "how long since you ranged the fens and slew the upstart Man?"

I set him on his feet. "I was right," I said. "The call wasn't in my
mind alone."

He grinned at his friends. "Here is another who has the memory," said
he.

       *       *       *       *       *

I stared at him. He was short, stocky, with a great shock of yellow
hair sleeked down with oil. His eyes were living gray jewels in a tan
face. His friends were nondescript, yet they held an odd resemblance to
one another: all were broad of chest and vital-looking, and--I liked
them.

"You're a rugged one," said the leader. "How long since you came awake?"

"About thirty-two hours."

They exchanged doubting glances. "I mean the first token you had that
you were--different."

"Thirty-two hours."

"And you remember the fens? Are you sure?"

"I remember that I was a Pict. I was called a vampire and likely a
werewolf. And I've had intimations that I go back even farther than
those fens."

"My God," said yellow-hair half-aloud. "Thirty-two hours! Did you get a
swat on the skull, or was it natural?"

"I think I just woke out of a sleep with it. It took a while to
percolate."

"Kill anybody?" he asked casually.

"Five men."

"The primal anger, yes. Five! Then you're Bill Cuff, of course. We've
been hearing about you on the radio. Thought you might be one of the
Old Companions."

"So that's what I am," I said.

"A name, only a name. We like the useless trappings of fraternity as
well as Homo sapiens does."

"How far back do we go?"

"You'll know some day. Soon, if your progress thus far is a criterion.
Better to remember by yourself." He shook his head. "You're a
phenomenon. Do you know how long it took me to develop the memory?
Seventeen years. And I am second leader here."

"Who's leader?"

"You'll meet him."

I clenched my hands, looked him up and down, and said. "Pict, wolf-man,
or whatever, I tell you this. I take orders badly and I acknowledge no
authority higher than myself." Anything less like the old Bill Cuff
would have been hard to imagine, and yet I knew these things about
myself and I spoke only the truth.

"Ah," he said, his jewel-gray eyes lighting, "you're a Tartar, all
right. Goes with the swift progress, I suppose. We may have to tame you
a little."

"Little man," I said gently, "you are welcome to try."

He jerked a thumb at my Gladstone. "Got anything worthwhile in there?"

"Just clothes and junk."

"Well, that's something. It would be hard to outfit an ox like you from
our wardrobes. We don't generally run to height, you know." He said to
one of the others, "Take it to the house, Trutch." The man (or I should
say the reincarnated Pict) took it and disappeared down the trail. "Now
we'll throw off your hunters. Many of them?"

"Hell, I don't know. Sounds like a lot of dogs."

He scratched his cheek. "Reinforcements," he said, and whistled a
fluting call. Then he made a curious motion with his right hand. I knew
that motion as well as his followers did. We stepped quietly in among
the thick underbrush and, squatting down, waited.




                               CHAPTER X


They came along the pathway, holding in the leashed dogs, for evidently
they did not trust to their own powers to keep up with free-running
beasts. There were eight or ten men, with as many hounds. These were
making a fearful racket. They nosed us and before they got abreast of
us were poking wildly aside from the safety of the tussocked path of
solid earth. The men yelled at each other and made the usual human
amount of unnecessary uproar.

How I scorned and despised them!

One carried a grotesque-looking apparatus on his back which I supposed
to be a kind of enlarged walkie-talkie. The germ of a plan grew. I
marked this fellow for my own.

When they drew opposite I charged out of hiding with a savage bellow.
The dogs, not mankillers, were baffled for a moment, and the men were
taken wholly by surprise. I gripped the front of the walkie-talkie
operator's jacket and hit him in the belly; with the new adroitness
lent my muscles by race memory, the punch had the force of a giraffe's
kick. Ignoring the other men, I dragged him off to the side and laid
him on his face among the lush weeds.

Others of the Old Companions were fighting with them now. None of us
had weapons--indeed, they would only have hampered us and blunted our
murder-lust. I heard the futile spat of a revolver over the barking
and yelling. Two men came at me, drawing their guns. I reached out,
laughing, and took them by the necks and smashed their heads together.
My hands and forearms were spattered with blood and brains. I let the
corpses fall and looked for other adversaries.

They were all dead, even the dogs. Seven of my brothers watched me
expectantly, including the yellow-haired chief. I went over to the man
whom I had hit in the belly.

"Can any of you work that instrument?"

They shook their heads. So I took it off his back--it was held by
shoulder straps--and rolled him over. I splashed green-slimed water in
his face. After a while he blinked and gasped.

"How does this thing work?" I asked. He looked at me, then at the
malevolent faces of the Old Companions. In a whispering croak he told
me how to manipulate the transmitter.

"How many other parties are searching the swamp?"

"One."

"What's the leader's name?"

His eyes flickered for a minute. "Bill Jones," he said weakly. I
doubled my fist and regarded his face. After a minute he said, "All
right. It's Sam D'Peero."

"Where are they?"

"Took another trail. Off west, I think."

I killed him then. "Deep hole near here?" I asked yellow-hair.

He grinned, shouldered a corpse and picked up a dead hound by its
collar. We followed him, myself dragging two men by the belts so as
not to get any bloodier than I was. We found a big reeking boghole and
threw them into it. Going back, we destroyed the signs of the battle.
Then I picked up the walkie-talkie, switched it on.

"Sam!" I shouted, pitching my voice high and filling it with terror.
"Sam, can you hear me? Oh, my God, we're trapped! The dogs run us into
the swamp!" I waited a moment, heard someone say faintly and tinnily,
"Johnny, what's the matter?"

"I--oh Lord, I'm sinking! I can't hold onto this branch much longer.
Sam, Sam! I think the Cuff guy came and fell into this hole. You can't
tell it ain't solid, and the dogs followed him and all the others--oh
Sam, help me!"

"Explain, Johnny!" said the instrument. "What's wrong with the others?"

"I tell you we fell in, Sam! We were all bunched and this stuff's like
quicksand. I'm--" I broke off, shrieked, gurgled horridly, and then
picked up the walkie-talkie and heaved it deep into the swamp.

Yellow-hair laughed. "It might not put them off, but it'll confuse them
no end. If you're worried about them finding the house, don't. A cross
between a bloodhound and a private eye couldn't locate it. Come on." He
patted my arm. "Let's go home."




                              CHAPTER XI


The house was old but well-kept, upreared in the heart of the great
green swampland. It was such a house as a troll might have built--a
troll with a Gothic imagination. Rambling, with a ramshackle look
despite its sturdiness, wood-turreted.... "One of our more exotic
head-quarters," said yellow-hair, whose name was Skagarach. "Don't know
what madman built it. We have them, HQs that is, all over the world;
but not many in so congenial a setting."

"Are we truly all over the world, then?"

"Most of it. Maybe not in deep Africa, nor in places like the South
Seas, but wherever there're big enough colonies of so-called white men,
we are there." There arose a faint barking, somewhere in the depths of
the house. Skagarach shook his head as I snarled. "No, they're ours. We
have dogs, of course. The friendship of the dog was not always limited
to man. He was our servant too. And will be again."

"Who were we?"

He returned a question. "Do you know why you came here?"

"I was called. Something in my mind--"

"Yes. We're telepathic to a degree." He grinned. "Don't let it go to
your head. It's a gift we share with the ants and the bees." We entered
the house and I found a spacious living room furnished with big leather
armchairs. "Have a drink," he said, pointing to a wall bar. "One
worthwhile invention of our friend Man."

"No friend of mine," I said, and then, turning to him, "but why? Why
this two-day reversal of my feelings? Why has this thing happened to
me, Skagarach?"

"So quickly ... I don't know why it happened so quickly. As for the
general _why_ of it, it's blood and bone and sinew and soul come down
to us from the beings we once were. It's a powerful strain--so powerful
that powerful is a weak word for it. I think it must be the strongest
blood-strain that ever ran in animal veins. One drop, I think, would
redden an ocean of milk."

"Animal." I repeated. One of the Old Companions put a tall drink in my
hand and I nodded thanks. "I know this, but tell me again. We are _not_
men, are we?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked into my eyes with those uncanny gray jewel-orbs. "No, we
are not. At least not Homo sapiens pure and simple. I believe we
began this hybrid race by stealing and mating with human women--"
I recalled my long-ago death by treachery and agreed--"and then
possibly the offspring of those unions mated among men. Certainly
the Picts were not pure _us_. Then afterward the breed was watered
again when the Picts bred to outlanders. Men always hated us, but
women are strange creatures and--well, the unions must have been
many. A mere handful that's accounted for by thefts of women couldn't
have produced the mighty tide of anti-human passion which runs in us
after so many centuries. Many millions must have our taint in them,
though comparatively few have it so abundantly as you and I and these
Old Companions. Note that I say 'comparatively'. Actually there are
thousands of us who recognize our essential difference."

"So now the old blood wakes in us," I said exultantly. "Why? After so
long, why now? Are we like locusts, our knowledge lying hidden for an
age and then bursting up in all of us at the same time?"

"A quaint notion," said Skagarach. "No, we have always known, I think,
in all the periods of history. But we never banded together before,
never fought the ancient enemy as an army within its gates, as we are
doing and will do with increasing potency."

"Why not?"

"Think, Cuff, only think! You are born in 1700; at a certain age you
begin to know you are different. You hate the race of men. You have
racial memories of living in caves, of being harried by men. What do
you do? You never heard the name of--what we were and are. Science has
told you nothing of prehistory. So where do you end?" He shrugged.
"Bedlam. The lunatic dungeons. Fancy ladies come and giggle at you, the
murderous madman, through the bars. You pine for fresh air and freedom,
because freedom is even more precious to our race than to man. You die."

"Oh," I said, catching his meaning. "It's only in the last century that
science has opened the door to the past, of course. Now we can realize
what we are, and work accordingly."

"Yes, we can organize, can sheer off from the pack of humankind, and
strengthen our race by inbreeding. We have children here and in the
other HQs, born of two of us who remember what they are before they
can read and write. I said it was a powerful strain. Listen. I raise
dogs. Once I bred a wolf to a shepherd. Five generations later a
pup was born that was all wolf, every last ounce of him. Perfectly
untameable little brute. We have that same tenacious blood-line, but to
an almost incredible degree. In fact I think it is not so much blood
with us as a strain in the mind. In us it has carried down through the
uncountable years since prehistory. As that dog was no dog, but a true
wolf, so we are not men, but--what we are." He broke off and looked at
me appraisingly. "I have hopes for you," he said. "The tide runs high
in you, Cuff. We will win back the world some day, we who are not of
mankind. You should prove tremendously important to us."

I said, "Skagarach, _who are we_?"

"Hush," he said, "the Old Man is coming."

"Old Man?"

"The leader."

I turned and saw the Old Man, and I knew what we were. I had one final
crashing burst of dawn memory, and I saw our beginnings and our whole
long story and why we would always have to fight men. All this I saw in
the Old Man's face.

That face was like a great terrible mask. The cheeks were broad,
the brow low and ridged, the brain case enormous. The chin was
shallow, with a wide thick-lipped mouth; and the eyes were glittering
oblongs of gray mica-sprinkled flint. Gray hair covered the massive
forward-thrusting head thickly, and tufts of it boiled up from the
collar of the white shirt on the barrel-sized chest.

Skagarach came up to me and saw my knowledge in my face. "Yes," he
said, "There is the true strain of our race; there is the result of
inbreeding over a number of generations. The true he of our people."

I growled. "No truer than I, Skagarach. His are the features, but mine
is the memory and the dawn brain."

He laughed. He seemed to find humor in everything. "I foresee strife,"
he said quietly. "You're a headstrong beast, Cuff. Never mind! We
thrive on strife. Do you know now who and what we are?"

"H. G. Wells called us the Grisly Folk."

"Yes. Cuff. You have it. We are the Neanderthals."




                              CHAPTER XII


Now you who read this:

I declare war on you and _all_ your kind.

I tell you plain that we will rise and slay you, that there will be no
quarter in this war which is to come to you. Forget your hostilities
between nation and nation--they have no importance compared with our
crusade. Put by your silly fears of invasion from other worlds--your
foe is here, has always been here, and is an enemy you cannot even
recognize.

For we are banding against you and we can do that which will be the
all-important factor in the waging and winning of this war: we can know
each other, while you are blind.

Lest you object that the Old Companions are madmen, that there is no
strain in mankind excepting that of man (and, if you are one of that
foolish breed who misreads Darwin, of monkey), let me also tell you
this:

Most scientists agree that _Homo Neanderthalensis_ was no true man,
but a kind of animal in manlike form, with several improvements and
more specialized faculties than man.

We know this, for the first thing we remember, the first thing our
children know, is that _we are not men_.

So watch for us.

Don't feel sheepish if you find yourself glancing back on the lonely
road. Don't be self-conscious if you draw away from the silent man who
sits next to you in the subway, he may not be a man at all.

We are here all about you. Watch for us.

We will win back the earth from you who crushed us so long ago.

_Watch for us! The future is ours!_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TOMORROW THE WORLD! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
