The Project Gutenberg eBook of A Zloor for Your Trouble!, by Mack
Reynolds

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: A Zloor for Your Trouble!

Author: Mack Reynolds

Release Date: August 31, 2021 [eBook #66189]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A ZLOOR FOR YOUR
TROUBLE! ***





                       A Zloor For Your Trouble

                           By Mack Reynolds

               Prescott stood to make a young fortune if
           he could capture a martian zloor--dead or alive!
           Was there a catch to it? Only for the hunter!...

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             January 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I was sitting on the cot in the little room at the rear of my
hangarage, where I keep my equipment and most of my trophies, and
cleaning my .257 Roberts when the knock came at the door. It was a
sharp, decisive knock. Then the door opened and I saw Westley Marks for
the first time. It didn't excite me.

He said, "Mr. Napoleon Prescott?"

I began to say, "Everybody calls me Nap," but then I didn't. There was
something about this guy that didn't click with me. Say what you will
against snap judgments, I still take my love at first sight and enmity
often the same way.

For one thing, he gave me the impression of _looking_ for trouble;
he was about six foot two and he had what he obviously thought was
an aristocratic face. His nose was the type that used to be called
Roman--and looked like it'd be a honey to punch. He was dressed like a
million, which didn't particularly impress me either. I'm on the rugged
side myself, red headed and homely to boot.

He took in the rifle I was cleaning, and his eyebrows went up
questioningly. "Collector?" he asked. Somehow or other he managed to
put over the impression that he thought I didn't have the intellect to
have a hobby.

"Not exactly," I told him. "This is a tool, not a collector's item."

There was almost a laugh in his voice now. "You mean you use that relic
in your work?"

I put the gun down, told myself to take it easy, then said, "They've
made a lot of developments in weapons since this rifle was popular, but
it still has advantages on certain types of jobs. For instance, if I
was after a Kodiac bear, up in the Alaska National Park--"

He snorted, "I'd take a Bazook-rifle and be sure who came out on top."

"Sure you would," I told him, "and there wouldn't be enough bear left
to feed your dogs. _I_ usually work for a zoo or a museum; they either
want the animal alive, or in good mounting condition. I admit that
they've got guns now that one man can carry that'd sink one of the old
time battleships; okay, but in my line I seldom need one."

He didn't like my tone of voice, but he dropped the point and began
looking around for a place to sit.

I hadn't asked him to sit down, and I didn't now.

I said, "Was there something I could do for you?"

"I wanted to hire you for a rather lengthy period," he told me.

"I'm all booked up for the next six months."

"This is something rather special."

"It always is when somebody wants you to cancel a job with a regular
client."

He didn't like me any better than I liked him, that was obvious. He
said, "This comes under the heading of work for the government."

I told him, "There are other professional hunters. Some of them nearly
as good as I am." The last was sarcastic.

"Possibly better," he said, "but none of them are your size."

       *       *       *       *       *

I could feel my face approaching the color of my hair at that one.
"Keep my size out of it," I snapped. I indicated with a thumb a little
statuette on my desk. "The guy my mother named me after was pint size
too. He got along all right."

He looked over at Bonaparte. "Ummm," he said. "Napoleon was a big name
once--but he's only a bust now."

"Listen," I told him, "you're asking for a bust yourself. Why don't you
run along? I'm busy."

He ignored me, found a chair that had nothing but a few magazines on
it, tossed them to the floor and sat down. "Your name was brought up
because you're the smallest professional hunter on Earth. It'd save a
few thousand credits in getting you to Mars and back."

That stopped me. "What in kert are you talking about?" I growled.

"The government wants a specimen, at least one, of a zloor."

"A what?"

"A zloor," he repeated. "A small Martian animal."

I scowled at him. "And just why does the government want a zloor?"

"That's a secret."

"Okay. I'll tell you another secret. Somebody else can catch the
government a zloor. I've never been off Earth and I haven't any
particular hankering to go now." I picked up the .257 Roberts again and
reached for my oil can.

He got to his feet, something just this side of a sneer on his face,
and said, "I doubt if you could have got one anyway."

I said easily, "If anyone else could catch it, I could."

He reached for the doorknob, "I'd lay a thousand credits against
_that_," he said. He began to leave.

"Wait a minute, buddy," I snapped. "Are you just sounding off or have
you got a thousand credits you don't care what happens to?"

He turned and faced me. "I am willing to wager a thousand credits that
you can't capture a zloor."

"How big are they?"

"About the size of a rabbit."

I glowered at him. "They very fast, or very poisonous, or what?"

He shrugged. "They can't run quite as fast as a common Terran hare, and
I understand they're quite gentle."

"Then why haven't they been captured?"

"Among other things, Napoleon," he rolled my name over his tongue as
though he got a big laugh from it, "there have been only a few hundred
persons in all that have gone to Mars. Few of them, to my knowledge,
have been interested in the life forms there. The expense of freight
in space is much too high for Terran zoos to transport Martian life
forms--particularly alive--considering the cost of duplicating in the
space craft the living conditions necessary to--"

"All right," I snapped, "just a minute." I picked up the viso-phone
and dialed rapidly. In seconds, Jerry Mason's friendly pan lit up the
screen.

"Listen, Jerry," I said, "Have you ever heard of a Martian zloor?"

His eyebrows went up. "Sure, what--"

"Are they particularly fast?"

"No, of course not. But--"

"Are they dangerous?"

He grinned, but he was still puzzled. "I'd say they were about the
least dangerous animal I ever heard of. But, Nap--"

"Just one more question, Jerry, I'm in a hurry. Do you think I could
catch one?"

"I can't think of anything you could catch easier." He started to give
one of his short bursts of laughter. "But--"

"Thanks, Jerry," I told him. "See you later." I snapped off the set and
turned back to Westley Marks.

"All right, answer just one question and I'll take up that bet of
yours. What's secret about this?"

"If I tell you, you'll take on the job?"

"The job, _and_ the thousand credit bet," I grated.

"Very well. It is suspected that the zloor is an alien life form."

I stared at him. "Are you around the corner?" I demanded. "Of course
it's an alien life form. Didn't you just say it's a Martian animal?"

"Ummmm. But some authorities think it is alien to this solar system.
At least they suspect so--that's why the government wants a specimen
to dissect and thoroughly investigate. They haven't the facilities on
Mars, of course, so it will be necessary to bring one back here."

I still stared at him. "Alien to the solar system? Your roof _must_ be
leaking. How would it get here?" A sudden suspicion hit me. "You mean
it's intelligent? I thought there wasn't any intelligent life forms on
Mars."

He shook his head. "It's a stupid herbivorous animal." He shot a glance
down at his watch. "The shuttle for the space station leaves in three
hours. Can you make it?"

I glared at him. "You give me plenty of time, don't you?--I'll make it
all right. But first I want this bet down in writing."

"Of course," he said smoothly.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had to hustle plenty. The zloor wasn't any bigger than a rabbit, and
I knew that life forms on Mars were in general small, so I took nothing
larger than my little carbine size .22 Hornet, another gun that Westley
Marks probably would have sneered at but which I wouldn't have traded
for all the automatics you could shake a stick at.

I didn't take much else; no clothes except the shorts I wore when I
climbed into the shuttle rocket for the space station. When Marks said
freight rates in space were high he just wasn't whistling, _Terra
Forever_. I could buy clothes and any other equipment I needed a good
deal cheaper on Mars than the cost of transporting them there would
come to.

For one thing, when anybody left the colony planet to come back to
Terra, they invariably left behind everything in the way of clothing
and personal equipment; for another, a certain amount of these things
were being manufactured on Mars from native raw materials in an attempt
to escape the murderous space rates.

After the four G's acceleration had cut off and we were in free fall,
I took the opportunity to read the contract I'd hurriedly signed with
Westley Marks. On thorough reading, the contract didn't seem _too_ bad.
All my expenses to and from Mars were paid by Marks. I also got five
credits a month in the way of salary--no fortune, but average pay for a
Terran worker. If I caught a zloor and brought it back alive, I got a
five hundred credit bonus; if I brought two back alive, a seven hundred
credit bonus. If I brought a dead one back, I got a three hundred
bonus. Westley Marks didn't seem to be interested in getting more than
one dead one since there wasn't any provision for a larger number.

He'd given me to understand that this job was for the government, but
from the way the contract read I was working for the Marks Enterprises.
That irritated me for a minute or so, but I finally shrugged it off.
He probably had a government contract to secure one of the things. I
still couldn't figure out what his angle was--but I knew there must be
one; too much money was involved to make this a routine assignment such
as I usually work on for the zoos. Evidently Marks ran some sort of an
expediting outfit which took on off-trail contracts.

At this point I might do a little in the way of describing my trip
to the space station which circles Terra and is used as a take-off
point to Luna and the planets. I might go on and tell of my journey
from there to the space station in orbit about Mars, and then, further
still, of my shuttling down to Fort Mars and my first impressions of
landing there, of the one-sixth gravity, the thin air, the plastic dome
which covers the whole little city. But the trouble is that a hundred
people a lot quicker with a dicto-typer than I am have already done the
job. I'll just leave that part of it and take up with my first contact
with my fellow Terrans on Mars.

One of the old gags is to the effect that when Greek meets Greek they
start a restaurant. Okay, maybe, but I do know this, that when man in
general starts up a new colony one of the first buildings he puts up is
a bar.

At any rate, as soon as I was settled at the Biltless Hotel--the name,
of course, is a gag, but the place lived up to it--I made my way to
Sam's.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, there's something that invariably happens to people who get
around. It's happened to you, if you're one of us. Maybe you're walking
through the Congo Game Preserve, figuring there isn't another man,
white or otherwise, within a hundred kilometers. Suddenly you run into
another party and somebody yells, "Hello Nap! What in kert are you
doing here?" The last time you saw him was in San Francisco. Or maybe
you're doing some solitary drinking in some obscure bar in Guatemala.
The guy next to you looks over and says, "Say, aren't you Nap Prescott,
the brother of--" and, of course, you are.

Well, that was it. I hadn't any more got up to the bar and told Sam,
"Let me have some of this Martian _woji_ I've been hearing so much
about," when I heard somebody yelp, "It's Nap! I'll be a grinning
_makron_ if it isn't Nap!"

I turned around and there was Mike Holiday, as big as life and twice as
drunk.

He waddled his bulk over to me--Mike always waddles when he's
soused--from the table where he'd been sitting.

"By the Holy Jumping Wodo," he crowed, "I'll bet my left arm you came
to get a zloor."

I'd been grinning and holding out my hand to clasp his, but that
stiffened me.

He saw it and began to laugh uproariously. "Another joiner of the
club!" he yelped. "Come on over and meet your fellow members. You got
one of them Westley contracts too?"

That did it.

I went over and met the boys. Mike Holiday wasn't the only acquaintance
of mine in Fort Mars. In fact, it was like a convention of the
outstanding professional hunters of Earth.

They all shouted their greetings, some of them laughing so hard tears
rolled down their cheeks. Evidently they got a big kick every time a
newcomer was added to their ranks. I shook hands with some, but most
were too hilarious to go through the ceremony.

Blackie Conover yelled, "I'll bet anybody two to one he brought a .22
Hornet to shoot himself a zloor. Two to one!"

"Do we look like suckers?" Mike yelled back at him.

I sank into a chair and took it for awhile. "I can wait," I growled at
them. "Sooner or later somebody'll get around to telling me what goes
on."

"He can wait, he says," Doughbelly fairly yelped in delight. "Brother,
he ain't just a whistlin' _Terra Forever_, he can wait! Bring on the
woji! Start the initiation!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I woke up in the morning in Mike Holiday's apartment. I groaned and
told myself that I was sworn off of woji for all time.--I didn't know
then that Terra-side liquor sold for ten credits a bottle.

Mike was grinning down at me. "You'll get used to woji," he said.

"I should live so long," I moaned. Then I sat up suddenly in the bed.
"You guys wouldn't tell me anything last night," I said. He was still
grinning. "That's part of the initiation into the Zloor Club. What'd'ya
want to know, Nap?"

I swung my feet over the side of the bed and came to a sitting
position. I groaned and shook my head in an attempt to clear it.

"What are half the professional hunters I know doing on Mars?"

He spun a chair around so that the back faced me, and straddled it, his
arms resting on the top rung. "Same thing you are, Nap. Being suckers
for that _makron_ Westley Marks."

I started to say something there but he interrupted me with a wave of
a hand. "This is what it boils down to. Marks has a contract with some
branch of the government to bring back one or more zloors. And don't
ask me why he doesn't go out and catch one himself--he's tried."

"He has, eh?"

"Yeah, he has. Had a whole crew up here. What makes it nice for him is
that he's on a cost plus basis. If he never succeeds, it'll still be
money in his pocket; if he does, he gets a whopping big bonus. Every
time he sends another man up here to take a crack at getting a zloor,
he makes money. No doubt the way he told _you_ the story, you'd think
you were the only one trying."

I snorted, "He told me I'd been picked because I was the smallest pro
hunter in the game."

Mike Holiday grinned. "He picked me because I was so big.--I could
stand the rigors of life on Mars, he said."

"Well, if it's a racket, why doesn't everybody go home on the next
ship?"

"Probably for the same reason you won't. That sharper made me so sore I
bet him five hundred credits I could catch a zloor."

"I bet him a thousand," I groaned.

Mike whistled. "Where'd you ever get a thousand credits, Nap?"

"I broke into my piggy bank," I growled. "It's every cent I had in the
world."

"Well, we're all in the same boat. He made bets with all the boys.
If we go back, we lose. As long as we stay here we make five credits
a month, plus expenses.--And, besides, all of us are just conceited
enough to think we can figure out eventually how to get one of the
things home."

"Now we're getting to the point," I told him. "What's so hard about
catching a zloor?"

He began to grin again. "Nothing," he said. "And that's all I'll tell
you now. Go out and find the gruesome details yourself."

I went over to the wash basin and filled the bowl and dipped my head
into the water. I didn't say anything else to him until I'd dried
myself and climbed into my clothes.

"All right," I said then. "Where do I go to see about getting equipment
and men for an expedition to the zloor country?"

He laughed. "All you need in the way of equipment is your feet, that
is, besides a plastic oxygen mask when you leave the dome." He pointed
out the window. "Just head for the nearest rocky area, there's lots
of it; you won't have any trouble finding a zloor. In fact, they're
numerous--no natural enemies."

I scowled at him. "What keeps them down then?"

"Insufficient forage, I guess. You'll see."

I picked up my .22 Hornet rifle and started for the door. "No time like
the present to--" I began to say.

Mike was still grinning in the irritating manner he'd been displaying
ever since the night before. "You won't need that gun," he told me.

"I'll just take it along anyway," I snapped.

       *       *       *       *       *

After leaving the dome through one of the airlocks, I headed out onto
the surface of Mars, weighted down with my leaded boots, standard
equipment for cutting down some of the effect of the one-sixth gravity
of the planet.

Over to the westward, possibly three miles away, seemed to be a barren,
rocky area. I knew that Mike Holiday wouldn't have deliberately lied
to me, that was where zloors were to be found. I made my way in that
direction.

"About the size of a rabbit," I muttered. "And half the hunters on
earth can't bring one back."

I made the rocky area and found myself a suitable prominence from which
to look around. In less than fifteen minutes, I'd spotted one of the
things. They were about the size of a rabbit all right, and what was
more they looked considerably like one of the earth type rodents--long
ears, nub of a tail. I watched it for some time through the small glass
I'd borrowed from Mike.

It was evidently eating the bark, and possibly the wood as well, of a
stunted, rugged looking Martian tree which seemed to be growing out of
almost solid rock.

The boys had said that there were a lot of zloors around so I didn't
have to worry about conversion. I took up the rifle, aimed carefully
through the scope and squeezed the trigger. I was interested,
eventually, in getting a live zloor, but it wouldn't hurt to have a
closer look at one of the things to help me in planning my campaign.

The gun snapped and I could see the tiny bullet spank into the little
animal's side. I'd got him!

But something didn't look right. I took up the telescope again and
peered through it. The zloor was still eating.

That stopped me. I could have sworn that I'd hit it, right amidships.

I aimed even more carefully this time, for its head, and squeezed
gently. That shot, too, hit dead center.

But the zloor didn't bother to stop its feeding.

I sat there a long time staring at it. Finally I snorted inwardly.
Obviously, this was what had been stopping the others--this animal had
some very effective natural body armor. Well--there is more than one
way of skinning a zloor, as well as a cat.

I picked up the rifle and headed down toward the tree and the animal
that was devouring it, figuring to get as close as possible with the
idea of getting a really good look at the bulletproof beastie. I
wished, now, that I'd brought my .257 Roberts instead of the .22 Hornet.

At first I was careful in my approach, slipping from cover to
cover; but as I got closer it became evident that the zloor wasn't
particularly timid and that as far as it was concerned I could come as
near as I wanted.

I stood off about five feet and watched it for a long time. Once it
looked up and over at me, but then went back to the tree in which it
was making a respectable hole.

I tried once again with the rifle, aiming carefully right behind its
ear. The gun snapped, and the bullet thudded--but the zloor ignored it.

"Holy Wodo," I snorted. "He's _really_ bulletproof."

In fact, he was more than just bulletproof. The _shock_ of the impact
of the high powered twenty-two hadn't even bothered him, it wasn't just
a matter of the bullet's inability to penetrate the hide.

"Well," I told myself. "Let's see just how close I _can_ come before it
runs off."

       *       *       *       *       *

I walked up to him cautiously. He didn't move. In my surprise, I even
prodded him gently with my shoe. He still didn't move. He looked up at
me again, his eyes a wistful yellowish color, then went back to his
meal.

I shook my head, wondering if I was still suffering from the effects of
the woji binge, or what. This was just too easy--maybe it was a sick
one or something.

I reached down and grasped it by the ears and started to pick it up.

Have you ever tried to pick up something and found out it either
weighed considerably more, or was fastened to the floor? That's what
happened to me. With Martian gravity what it is, I figured I'd have a
weight of possibly one earth pound of lift. Instead, I nearly broke my
back--and the zloor still didn't budge.

I put more pressure to bear, all my strength--and the zloor
complacently went on eating.

Hands on hips, I stood above the rabbit-like animal and stared at it.

Finally, I muttered, "More than one way to bring home a zloor," and,
taking my gun by the barrel, I swung it viciously down at the gentle
looking little animal--feeling like a heel as I did it.

I might have saved my feelings, because two seconds later I was gazing
wide-eyed at the shattered stock of my rifle and the zloor was still
eating away at the tree.

I tried just one more experiment before I called it a day. I put the
rifle barrel under him and tried to pry him off the ground. The zloor
still ignored me, but the steel barrel bent under the pressure. The
animal hadn't budged.

       *       *       *       *       *

Without knocking, I walked back into Mike Holiday's room. He was lying
stretched out on the bed, his hands behind his head, staring at the
ceiling.

He didn't need to look at me. He said, "Nap, you are now a full-fledged
member of the zloor club."

"What does one of those things weigh?" I snapped.

"Hey, red-head," he grunted, "don't take it out on me, I didn't invent
them. Far as I know, nobody's ever weighed one, but it's been estimated
that they go about five tons here on Mars. Six times that on earth."

"That's insane!"

"Sure is. That's why the government wants one so badly. Just isn't
natural for such an animal to develop in the solar system."

"Or anywhere else!"

He got up on one elbow and grinned over at me. "The theory is that it's
a life form from some planet belonging to a white dwarf star. Some time
ago a guy named Adams at the Mount Wilson observatory, back on Earth,
estimated that the density of some of the white dwarfs was two thousand
times greater than platinum. I'm not much up on it myself."

I scowled down at him. "How'd it get here?"

He was serious now. "That's the reason the government wants one so
badly, Nap. They want to get it to their laboratories and find out
everything they can. There only seems to be one possibility, though."

"What's that?"

"If it _is_ alien to the solar system and from a white dwarf's planet,
it might have been brought here deliberately and left as a guinea pig."

I began to say something there but he held up a hand to stop me.
"Possibly an exploring spaceship from the alien planet was looking for
colony sites. When it got to our solar system it left some of these
animals with the idea of coming back in a few thousand years or so to
see if the zloors were able to adapt themselves to the conditions
existing here."

I ran my tongue over suddenly dry lips. "You mean that if the zloors
can live in our solar system, then these more intelligent aliens would
figure they could use our sun system for a colonizing project?"

He nodded.

"Holy Wodo," I said. "No wonder they want some specimens to work on
back on Earth."

He relaxed again. "Well, at the rate we're going, it'll be a long time
before earth laboratories ever have the opportunity to mess around with
our pal the zloor."

       *       *       *       *       *

I got a chair and sat down facing him and said seriously, "Mike, brief
me on what you and the other fellows have tried."

"You don't have to ask. That goes with membership in the club," he
grinned. "Among other things, we've tried building a steel box around
one of them with the idea of putting wheels on it later."

"That sounds good."

"Uh huh. The trouble was that when the zloor felt like moving he walked
right through the side of the steel box like you or I'd walk through a
wall of tissue paper."

"How about poisoning one?" I rapped. "You could get a dead one back a
lot easier than--"

"They don't poison," he said, "and from what we can figure they're
practically immortal. We have never found a dead one."

"What'd'ya mean, they don't poison?"

"Just that. Nap, that animal can eat _anything_ organic and thrive on
it. Evidently, no poison that nature has ever produced affects it. At
least, none of us have been able to dream one up."

"How about narcotics, something to dope it?"

He shook his head. "To begin with, some of these Martian plants produce
narcotic effects that make the products of our poppy look like food for
babes; but the zloor takes them in its stride. It's _really_ got a cast
iron stomach. We've never been able to locate anything it won't eat and
enjoy eating."

I didn't say anything for a long time. Then, "A Bazook-rifle would kill
one."

"Sure," he said, "and splatter it all around the scenery at the same
time. The laboratories need a _good_ specimen."

There was another long silence. Finally I said, "Why in the name of
Wodo don't they sink into the ground if they weigh as much as all that?"

"They would, only they make a point of walking on rock. That must
be one of the things that limits their spreading even more widely.
They have to be able to forage on ground that supports very little
vegetation."

"You could lift one with a derrick."

He said, "This is the fifth time I've been through this. Every guy that
Westley Marks sends up here asks the same questions. Sure you could
lift it with a derrick if the derrick was big enough. Do you have any
idea of what it'd cost to bring a derrick of that size to Mars?

"And that's not the only thing, either. These zloors are gentle as
lambs, but they hate to be confined against their will. That derrick'd
have to have some awfully strong equipment to keep the zloor from
breaking loose and ambling off. There's other angles there, too.
Suppose your derrick did lift him into the shuttle. When you got the
shuttle up to the space station, how'd you move the zloor from the
shuttle to the station and then from the station to the rocket for
Terra?"

He go up from the bed and went over to a little table to return with a
bottle and a couple of glasses. He poured two drinks and handed me one.
"Here," he said, "you look like you could use a quick one. Have a hair
of a dog that's going to bite kert out of you before you ever leave
Mars."

I grated, "I could stand the rest of it, but what burns me up is that
_makron_ Westley Marks. Here he is getting rich on the project. Besides
what he makes from the government, he's bet every one of us so much
that we'll all be out our life savings when we go back."

"Brother Nap, you have said it," Mike Holiday said feelingly. He tilted
the glass to his lips and drank deeply. I was right behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was more than two years later when I walked into the office
of Westley Marks. I noted with pleasure that he still looked as
aristocratic as ever.

"Ah," he said, "Mr. _Napoleon_ Prescott. As I recall, the last time we
met you objected to my calling your namesake a 'bust.' Don't tell me
that we have an additional bust in--"

I loved it. I loved every word of it. And he must have seen that I did.

"What are you grinning about?" he barked. It was the first time I had
seen his poise disturbed.

"Frankie," I told him, "is at the spaceport right now. Johnny will be
down on the next shuttle. As you can imagine, the shuttle was pretty
well strained to capacity to bring even one at a time. It was no
trouble in space of course, since they were weightless in free fall,
but entering the gravitational--"

He put his hands on the top of the desk and half came to his feet. His
eyes were wide. "Who are _Frankie_ and Johnny?"

I feigned surprise. "Frankie and Johnny are sweethearts--a couple of
zloors, in this case. Remember? You sent me for them. I thought a male
and a female would be best."

He slumped back in his chair. "You aren't lying?"

I didn't say anything.

"How ... did you do it?"

"With peach pits," I said.

"Peach pits!"

"Peach pits. They like apricot pits too, and sometimes prune seeds."

"What in the world are you talking about, Prescott? Have you lost your
mind?"

I opened the humidor on his desk, took out a cigar, smelled it, bit off
the end, lit it, and took a deep puff before answering him. I settled
down into a comfortable chair and pointed the lighted end of the cigar
in his direction.

"Between one or the other of us we had tried everything, everything.
I realized finally that it would have to be an entirely different
approach."

       *       *       *       *       *

I took another satisfying drag on the cigar, then went on. "I tried
lettuce, cabbage, corn, string-beans--everything in fact that the
hydroponic tanks on Mars could supply in the way of earth type food.
None of it worked."

"What in hell are you talking about?" Marks blurted.

I ignored him. "Finally it came to me. Lettuce and the other vegetables
I offered would be too _light_ for them. I tried walnut hulls and then
peach pits, and that worked like a charm."

"You must be insane."

"You don't seem to understand, Marks," I told him. "There was no other
way of getting a zloor on board an earth bound rocket, so I made pets
of a couple of them. They love peach pits--regular delicacy for them."
I added reflectively. "You'd be surprised how well trained I've got
Frankie and Johnny; I'll hate to give them up."

I tapped the ash of the cigar off on his heavy carpet and said,
"However, business is business. Let's see, by our contract you owe me
five credits for each month I've been gone, plus a seven hundred credit
bonus for bringing back two live zloors, then there's that thousand
credit wager we made."

He snapped on his inter-office communicator and growled instructions to
his secretary to find whether or not I had brought back two live zloors
in the Mars rocket. We sat there silently while she checked. I puffed
on the cigar with appreciation and dropped the ashes, pointedly, on
the floor. He was irritated, but wouldn't give me the satisfaction of
complaining.

I knew I was being childish, but I loved it.

The inter-office communicator buzzed and he listened to his secretary's
report, then reached down into his desk for a checkbook.

He said while he was writing it, "I'm sure you'll be pleased to know,
Prescott, that in spite of this sum I'm giving you, I'll still make a
considerable profit on this deal."

I took the check and examined it carefully.

"Ummm," I told him. "But I wouldn't be very surprised if a good deal of
that profit is going to be melting away."

"Eh? What do you mean?" he snapped.

I told him, "The other boys up on Mars are still well equipped with
peach pits. They're all making pets too. The next few rockets from Mars
are going to be loaded with zloors, Westley, old man. You're going to
have a flock of bets to pay off--and, besides that, I'm wondering if
the government is going to want that many zloors. As I understand it,
two is all that they contracted for with you. Of course, you'll have
to pay the boys for them--"

He didn't say anything as I left, fanning the check to dry it, but he
looked as though he'd met his Waterloo.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A ZLOOR FOR YOUR TROUBLE! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
