The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ticket to the Stars, by Raymond E. Banks

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Ticket to the Stars

Author: Raymond E. Banks

Release Date: September 8, 2021 [eBook #66245]

Language: English


Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TICKET TO THE STARS ***




               Earth wasn't good enough once a man had a
            taste of deep space--and met his Ideal. Al Hall
            wanted to know why, so he volunteered for his--

                          TICKET to the STARS

                          By Raymond E. Banks

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I was sitting in the dining-bar of the Thousand Lights, in New York,
watching Kelly as the woman walked into the bar. There was a ripple,
an undercurrent of sensation. Not because of the way she looked, not
because of her dress, but because she was an Ideal. People hate Ideals.
The better-looking they are the more they are hated, and this one was
right on top.

I sat at a table about twelve feet from Kelly. He sat at the bar and
I could see his face in the mirror. His face scowled in an expression
of hate. I saw him pick up his cigarettes and make a ball of the empty
package with his fist. He tried to look away; his eyes crossed mine and
he didn't even recognize me.

The Ideal came up to him and slipped on the stool beside him with some
word of greeting. She was human all right. Too human. She was dressed
in white. Most of them dress in white. There was some gold sprinkled on
her costume. It was very expensive, made of Scolarian cloth, flowing
around her body. Kelly bit his lip and pulled away from the touch of
her arm. It was a well-rounded arm, white and perfect in the soft
lights of the bar. The face was pleasant with a youthful glow. Her red
hair was soft enough to halo, strong enough to fall a bit this way
and that as she turned. She had a small nose, blue Irish eyes and a
smattering of freckles.

She looked a little bit like Kelly.

She went on talking. When she smiled her white teeth flashed and
sparkled. Nobody from earth quite had teeth like that.

The bartender set a drink before Kelly, took the Ideal's order. She
made a few comments to Kelly and he dipped his face despairingly in
his arms. The rest of the people in the bar went unconcernedly about
their business.

"God damn it! Leave me alone!"

Kelly burst out just as the bartender served the girl's drink. Kelly
took his own drink and threw it in the pretty Irish face of the
redhead, whipped away from the stool and was gone. I caught a glimpse
of his face as he went past and it was frightening. It was the face
of a man who can never get drunk again, who can never really sleep
again. You took one look at him and knew he'd been in deep space on the
Stardust Overdrive, but it seemed queer to see the look on a familiar
face.

My own insides felt cold. First Kelly made the moon. Then I did. Then I
made Mars. Then he did. Then he went on the Stardust Overdrive ... and
came back with his Ideal....

       *       *       *       *       *

Kelly's redhead wiped the drink from her face, flushing a little. A
bouncer came up and told her to leave. She gave him the look they
all have. Of patience, of humor, of some exasperation. Some of her
delectable red hair was soaked with the drink but she pushed it back
from her eyes and got up. She gave a wistful glance at her untouched
drink and started to go. She went past my table with a flash of smooth
legs. There was the faint odor of deep-space perfume. The crowd parted
in distaste from her, but a couple of near-spacemen made some grinning
cracks and whistled.

I followed her out.

She stood on the curbing, white and gracious, fumbling absently with
her coat as I came up. She was watching the parking lot. Her eyes
barely grazed me as I helped her with the coat. It was snowing but her
bare arms were warm.

"Is Kelly going back?"

She smiled her thanks for the help. "Maybe."

"Would he go back if anything happened to you?"

"I don't know."

Kelly was coming now. His aircar swooped up to the curb and he opened
the door for her. She got in, sliding beside him with an amused but
determined look.

I pulled out my gun and leaned forward. I put the muzzle against the
curving throat of the girl.

"Jim," I said, "I'll do it for you if you want."

There was a flash of fright in her face and she put her hand up to her
throat, but only to ease the pressure of the gun that dug into the
white flesh.

Jim stared at the girl and me and the gun.

"No, Al."

"It's no crime," I said. "They'd never convict me for killing an Ideal.
Jim, this is your last chance to beat the Stardust Overdrive."

"Thanks, Al," said Kelly. "Maybe I'll be sending for you someday to
help."

"Out there," I said.

"Out there," he said bitterly. "I'm leaving tomorrow."

The girl's small hands moved up and with amazing strength pushed my gun
away from her throat. Her look was one of triumph, even and cool, not
gloating. Almost matter-of-fact.

"Remind me to scare the hell out of you some time," she said. "We're
human too, you know."

I looked down at the sitting sweep of the white-clad thighs and
grunted. "Maybe."

Then I looked at Jim and saw it was check-out time. For a moment his
face had the old look of swagger. Just for a second he was the old Jim.

"Keep 'em flying, boy," he said.

"Same to you, Jim."

"Maybe I'll see you out there some time, Al."

"Maybe you will, Jim," I said.

"Goodbye, Albert Hall," said the girl. The aircar zoomed away from me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I put my gun away angrily. Then I caught an aircar back to the office.
On the way I did a lot of thinking. And what I thought made me even
angrier. I thought about Kelly--and all the other men like him who
signed on the Stardust Overdrive. They were good men, happy men--even
married, some of them. But when they came back from deep space they
were changed. For they always brought back an Ideal--a beautiful
woman on the surface, and seemingly one who was a reflection of their
every wish or desire--an Ideal. Human? As far as Earth science could
determine. But science and deep space were light years apart and
perhaps would always be that way for the men who went out there never
talked about it much when they came back. Why? _Why!_

What made them hate it--like Kelly? And what made them _have_ to
return? What turned a happy man into a miserable prisoner? _Why didn't
Kelly quit the Stardust Overdrive?_

When I got to the office I had made up my mind. This had been gnawing
at me for a long time and it had to be settled. I had to know....

I filled out my request for transfer from planetary runs to deep space.
Then I went to the tele and called my wife.

"Honey, you won't like what I've just done," I told her. I could see
her face take on a sudden chilled look. As if she knew....

"What is it, Al?" There was tenseness in her voice and I couldn't blame
her a bit.

"The Stardust Overdrive." I said it quickly and then felt like a heel.
But it was already too late.

"Al--no--you couldn't--"

"I signed the papers a few minutes ago. Honey, you've got to
understand--I have to ... I saw Kelly a little while ago. He's changed,
and I've got to know why. He was my best friend...."

Her face grew hard then. "Kelly! What about me? Don't I count? I'm your
wife--remember? Or would you rather find someone to take my place--an
Ideal!"

"You don't understand," I tried to tell her, but knew it was useless.
She had never been in space, not even to Luna. A spaceman gets the
challenge in his blood, he's got to see more, he's got to know what's
beyond the solar system. Out where the Ideals come from. Sooner or
later he's got to _know_.

Her face sobered suddenly and there was a desperateness in her eyes.
"Al, did Kelly tell you?"

I looked into the tele at her. "Tell me what?"

Her lips were tight and white. "Kelly's wife committed suicide today.
She couldn't take it any longer. It was her or--the Ideal...."

I felt the shock of her words and knew what she was trying to say. _It
could happen to us!_

I shook my head. "I'm sorry to hear that." And then I felt a bitter
anger. "She didn't give him a chance to find himself. Now he'll never
quit--"

"Chance! What kind of a chance does any woman have against an Ideal?
You're blaming _her_?"

This wasn't getting us anywhere and we both knew it. We stared at each
other in the tele for a long silent minute. Then she said, "This will
be the end for us, Al. Remember that before it's too late...."

I saw again the haunted look on Kelly's face. The almost desperate
pleading there of something I could never understand unless--

"I'm going." I said before I could let her change my mind.

"Then there's nothing more to say. Goodbye, Al."

And she switched off the set on me. Her face was gone, and maybe our
life together too. Just like that.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a three-day orientation period before we took off. Ships
on the Stardust Overdrive were operated by two-man teams and I
was assigned to a man named Radwick, an older man, who had been on
the Drive before. He was as crazy as a carnival mirror. He was a
semanticist and he carried around a small bag full of wooden blocks.
He would set these on a table and shift them around into various
positions. "I am thinking on the non-verbal level," he told me. "I'm
expressing ideas in things."

"Maybe we'd better go over the Company manual. I got a lot to learn in
only three days."

He had white hair and a thin face and a patient smile. "Nonsense. You
can't learn that way. You learn by doing. When we get into space, I'll
teach you all you need to know about the Drive."

I put in a complaint to the Company. "Listen," I told the supervisor.
"I don't like the idea of teaming up with a grown-up man who plays with
blocks. This boy has really lost his lid."

The supervisor gave me the stern Company treatment. "Don't you know
that we can't get one man in a hundred for the Drive?" he said. "We
can't afford to pick and choose. You volunteered for Stardust and
you'll have to abide by our system of operation."

       *       *       *       *       *

I was glad to get out of earth and into the planets. The people of
earth loved that far-off metal we brought back from the stars, called
duronium plus. You could make a hundred year suit with it or you could
carry an atomic pile around in your pocket in a wallet made of the
stuff. It was profitable trade for the Company, but nobody wanted to
have anything to do with the rest of the culture of the far-off stars.
Every human who had gone out there had either not come back, or had
come back with too few of his marbles. In order to get their duronium
plus they had to depend on the lunatic fringe of people like Radwick,
Kelly and me. People who would try anything once. People who liked to
scare themselves about a thing and then go out and do it.

Radwick and I traveled on a conventional ship almost to Pluto. The
small, fast Overdrive ships never came very far into the solar system.
The local boys who put us on the small, red traveler serviced the ship
with a touch of awe. They were plenty scared, as if afraid they would
be stuck on board when we left.

There was something odd about the construction of the ship, but I
couldn't put my finger on it.

"The design has passed through the minds of the Stardust beings," said
Radwick, dumping his blocks on the table in the main cabin with a
rattling sound. "Earthmen provided the blueprints but these ships are
built out in Scolaris. They're partly organic."

"What!"

I put my hand against one red wall and felt a warm, lifelike glow.

"Certainly, why not?" smiled Radwick, clomping a design with his
blocks. He made the carbon ring to symbolize life and an energy formula
to symbolize the machine. "It's only in people's minds that there is a
clean break between organic and non-organic. Machines have a youth, old
age and death; so do people. They are really interchangeable...."

"I don't like the idea of traveling in the stomach of some
space-monster," I babbled. "He might get the idea to digest us."

"Stomach-bummick," said Radwick. "This cabin could just as easily be an
ear or the inside of an eye. Only the ship isn't organic in that way.
It's just partly organic and partly not which may be expressed--"

He fell silent, throwing the blocks around. Suddenly I heard a bell. It
consisted of four mellow tones struck at regular intervals.

"What's that?"

"Ideal sound," he said. "You'll have to get used to that too. It's
another concept that we don't have back on earth."

"What's ideal about ringing a dinner bell?"

Radwick shrugged. "It's just a discontinuity to us. The Stardust people
write off our fashions in clothing as a discontinuity in reasoning that
they don't understand. We must write off theirs." He smiled briefly.
"You'll come to write off a great many things, young man."

I didn't tell him I thought the bells were far from ideal. They didn't
have any place to come from, and for the first time I felt a fear of
the unknown. Radwick sat there unperturbed trying to fashion some
concept, probably of the bells, with his blocks. The earthmen finished
servicing and came in to make arrangements for a rendezvous with us
some months from then.

"First time out?" the Captain asked me.

"Yessir," I said, trying to look fearless.

He sighed. "Watch out for the Ideals," he said. "The first time's the
hardest." His crew stood behind him looking at me like they would look
at a condemned man about to take his place in the electric chair.

"Well, all happiness," he said, giving a distasteful glance at the
absorbed Radwick.

"All happiness," I managed and they left us alone in space with ringing
bells and the red space ship that had the disconcerting habit of
sighing once in a while or shifting its wall structure in a stretch
that was so human you felt like apologizing for being inside it.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were out in four light year space. In the big Empty between our
solar system and the next. We had passed through two magnetic fields,
and already I wasn't the same, but Radwick had laughed.

"Pleasure and pain," he said. "As common as an old shoe on a vacant
lot. Why get corked over a little thing like that?"

It helped. It helped a lot to see him twisting and writhing on his
bunk, the same as I was, only with the big red encyclopedia on his
face as he pretended to read in indifference. We were in the painful
magnetic field for about eight hours and I cried and cursed and prayed
and laughed in horror and sweated a bucket. The reaction was worse. My
frayed nerves temporarily gave out and I tried to walk through the wall
of the space ship into the dining room of the Thousand Lights back in
New York.

Shortly after that we hit the pleasure field. Those precious moments
lasted for the same time as the painful sensations, but after that
earth seemed like a cemetery of the dead. I mewed like a stroked kitten
and Radwick kept putting down his encyclopedia and laughing in goofy
happiness. It was silly; it was wonderful; it made me so glad to have a
human body that I wanted to cry.

These magnetic fields were behind us now and I was staring at the
outside emptiness apprehensively.

"Radwick, look--" I gasped.

I had been watching a point of light in the distance. It broke on us
swiftly with dazzling power. The magnitudes of light were so powerful
that I had to turn the screen down to its darkest level.

Out there was what looked like the true Choir of Heaven. Rank on
rank of singing, human faces, spiraling upward. Tensions of mighty
humanistic fire glowed from the banked, singing faces. The hymn was
obscure but it was faintly religious and very stirring. Now we were
winging down a long corridor in space banked on either side by a myriad
shining, dedicated human faces, pouring out glory with solemn deep-soul
singing. The celestial organ effect made the whole ship vibrate and
made Radwick's blocks jump on the table like animated poker chips.

We were traveling towards a throne of golden light. In the midst of
the throne was a blinding brilliance that was our goal. Now the vision
closed in and the entire power of light and sound blasted into my
deepest marrow. Even when I closed my eyes I could see the faces; my
plugged ears yielded to the lifting sound.

Radwick was holding out a can of pork and beans towards me.

"Yesterday we had chili for supper," he shouted. "How's about beans
tonight--or shall I open a canned steak?"

"Man," I yelled, pointing helplessly to the overpowering vision. "Man--"

I have never been particularly religious because it doesn't help in
space. But for anybody that goes by the Book, this was Paradise in
white and gold technicolor. I was ready to subscribe my salary to the
cause and give up my life of sin in those seconds.

At the moment we came to the celestial throne, Radwick was scrounging
in the kitchen drawer trying to find another can-opener to replace the
one I'd bent.

We shot past the throne and into emptiness again. I mopped my brow and
peered back, exalted by the vision but glad that I was only seeing
things.

Only the Choir was still there and the throne, receding in the
distance. We were on the back side of it now.

"How about that?" I croaked weakly to Radwick. "How about that?"

"Oh, it's real all right," said Radwick evenly. He took a hatchet to
the can of beans and burst it open. "You can join up with the hymnals
if you want. Step right outside the ship and fall into rank. Heaven by
any definition. The company's lost plenty of spacemen there. Chance to
become immortal, you know. I suspect that the Choir's time is infinity
and past; present and future would cease to exist for you. Your body
would wither away and you'd become an essence, still with a vague
sense of your old name and address but totally wrapped up in the glory
hallelujah and the singing. On the whole, not a bad place to spend the
rest of eternity."

"Immortality," I breathed. "But--why--"

"According to the law of discontinuity," said Radwick, "the basic
assumptions which make its existence impossible are wrong. In other
words, we don't believe it could happen because of the known physical
facts of the human body and the known facts of space. But if any step
of reasoning along the way is wrong, then it could exist. So one link
in our reasoning is wrong--and it exists."

I didn't get that and he sat down with his half of the can of beans and
tried to explain it to me with his semantics blocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

I remember arguing the point of meaning and insanity with Radwick while
we were passing through the layers of time. The ship would give a jerk
each time we cut into a new strip in the piled-up layers. First we
would be in our own time which Radwick called white time. Then we would
bump over into blue time and there was a pervading sense of oddness
while our eyes adjusted to a new system of angles which made everything
look like a parallelogram in shape. In blue time our drinking water was
a rubbery chunk of blue stuff and the solid walls of our ship shimmered
into opaque, running liquid that forever eddied and whirled and yet
never drained away. You could put your hand into it and feel the walls
splash and splatter like water. But our hands, and indeed, our whole
bodies shifted in gaseous uncertainty, both Radwick and I becoming
shapeless things of floating motion in a time where liquids were solid,
solids liquid, and organic matter gaseous. Together we expanded to
fill the cabin and I was fascinated by the shifts in form.

I felt the logical hammer strokes of Radwick's thinking. "You've heard
ideal sound that pleases the auditory nerves. You've experienced the
perfect tyranny of pain and pleasure. You've witnessed the extreme
wonder of spiritual Heaven--now, my friend, feel freedom. A perfect,
ideal freedom of mind and body and being that men who grub after
freedom will never know."

Then we broke back into white time and everything became normal.

"No wonder they go mad out here," I breathed.

"Mad?" said Radwick. "No, not over that. The more alien a sensation,
the less dangerous it is to sanity. With the unknown there is the fear
symptom, perhaps, but there is no identity with the alien. The things
that drive men crazy are the known, normal things which are just one
beat off. Things that ought to be normal but aren't."

"Like the Ideals."

Radwick nodded his silver head. "Like the Ideals."

"How come you never met your Ideal, Radwick?"

He sighed. He played with the blocks. "I did. She was destroyed."

"You killed her?"

"She was destroyed."

In the red time there were suggestive mists that whispered. Radwick
watched me with amusement. I had never seen a mist-woman before,
and I forgot about the Ideals when I saw these graceful, half-solid
creatures that drifted past the ship. In the distance they were alien
forms but as they divined our own forms and wants they shifted into
reasonable facsimilies of earth-women and smiled and whispered as we
drew alongside.

"Sirens," I breathed, feeling cold fear inside.

Radwick concealed a smile as one of them materialized inside the ship.
She balanced on the cabin table and fell towards me, whispering sounds
that almost made words. The sensation was one of almost-solid and yet a
yielding that gave way to the touch. There was a wetness and a warmness
with just the suggestion of glossy, mist hair, dainty-brushing,
lip-kissing. She formed herself around my body and nibbled my ear and
teased me to open my pores and admit her.

"I don't know how!" I gasped, almost overwhelmed by the
not-quite-solidity of her.

"And never will," laughed Radwick. "You aren't sex-oriented or you
would be at the end of your run on the Overdrive right this moment,
spirited away into the ideal of orgiastic perfection. The Company loses
a lot of men to these mists and they go drifting in love forever, but
she can't hurt you."

Then the delicious mist got mad and slapped my face and floated
daintily off. Then came the jarring sensation and we were back in the
daylight of our own time and heading again towards the next layer of
blue time. Only by then I could marvel no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

I saw Kelly on Scolaris while they were loading the ship with duronium.
In exchange the Scolarians got various earth chemicals which were used
for alien purposes beyond our knowing. Scolaris was a planet of a great
star; it was also a city. It was a fine city but by no means different
from New York. In fact it could've been New York done on an idealistic
scale. The people of Scolaris, the Star-beings, were engaged in some
terrific struggle which I couldn't quite understand.

"Back on earth," said Kelly as we sat in his sidewalk apartment, "there
were a lot of things that went on I didn't like. If you loved someone,
there was hate mixed with it. If you liked some idea--freedom, equal
rights, the dignity of man, there was always some person or some
institution around that spoiled it. You were always striving for some
perfection and yet you knew you could never reach it. But listen, Al,
they got it here--perfection." He leaned back with a sigh.

His red-headed Ideal of the Thousand Lights in New York was there. Her
name was Valda and she smiled at me and asked if I had shot any more
Ideals lately. I grinned a negative and accepted the drink of Scolaris
that she mixed. It was perfect.

"The Scolarians are at war with a group from another galaxy, the
Philosters," said Kelly. "These star-beings are people like us engaged
in a great struggle with the Philosterian forces. But there isn't any
stupidity on our side. The Scolarians are all fine people, generous,
loving, determined. They respect one another; they never let you down.
The women of Scolaris that we call Ideals, once they fall for a man,
Scolarian or earth-like, are forever faithful and one hundred per cent
in love with you. To me the whole race is perfect good fighting the
perfect evil of the Philosterians. I want to join that fight, Al. Only
here on the Stardust Overdrive do the true whites and blacks of good
and evil exist."

"But you hated Valda back on earth," I pointed out. "Back in the
Thousand Lights that night."

"Yes. I hated her because she could be perfect and I knew I couldn't
be--I hated my own imperfection. I'm learning. I'm going to stay here
and learn to be a Scolarian. In other words, reach perfection of an
integrated, happy body and mind, engaged in a worthwhile struggle,
dedicated to the forces of good forever."

I leaned back seeing how much we were brothers, feeling how good it
was to be on Scolaris. There was a knock on the door and a dark-haired
woman came in.

"This is Sandy," said Valda, smiling at me.

I felt better than ever because I had met my Ideal.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There's one human agony worse than all," said Radwick. We were in the
Thousand Lights dining-bar back in New York. "It is to conceive an
ideal and then continually fall short of it. That's why the company
loses men out in space. On Scolaris a human can be his ideal. It ruins
him for earth. His body may be in New York, but his being is out on
the Stardust Overdrive, fighting the good fight, living for ideals,
experiencing total commitment."

I didn't pay much attention. I already knew what he meant. All of my
life I had yearned for things greater than life. An ideal job, an ideal
wife, an ideal struggle to fight and win. It wasn't on earth. It was
out on the Drive. Kelly, Radwick and I were fools on earth, cut off
from the sensible ones, hating the imperfections. The people for their
part rightly hated those ideal men and women of Scolaris.

I watched Sandy coming across the room. The earth people drew back in
hate. On earth I felt some of that hate, but I couldn't escape her. She
had a body that was delectable--because I had created the thought of
it for her to wear. Her face was the face of my dreams because I had
dreamed it so. She looked a little like me as an ideal always must.
But the red lips, the cream skin, the silken hips and trim ankles,
the glorious spun gloss of her dark hair and penetrating beauty of
gray-green eyes--these were less than the total appeal.

She wanted me no matter whether or not I wanted her. The ideal
love--realizing that she couldn't possibly escape me, no matter how
harshly I mistreated her. No matter what I did, she only smiled and
came back for more. She followed me like a dog, worried about me, crept
into my bed at night to warm my body, left me alone when I wanted to
be alone.

She stood at the table. She was my ideal. But you have to test and
retest an ideal. That's why, half in anger half in fear, I stood up and
struck her across the face, watching the imprint of my hand in red on
the smooth, young cheek. She had the look they all have of patience, of
humor, of some exasperation.

"Temper, temper," she said, sitting down with a grin. A near-spaceman
at the bar gave her the ogle and the wink and she frosted him with a
look. No need to worry about losing her.

But Radwick was smiling a curious smile. He was piling up tiny white
sugar cubes on the table. "Ah," he said, "Nothing is greater." Then he
leaned over to me and said, "Observe the girl with her back to us over
there. The Ideal. The one with the brown hair."

Sandy frowned. "Why would he be interested in another Ideal? Naturally
they all come here, as it is one of the few places they are made
welcome in your cold, non-idealistic city."

I looked at the Ideal. There was some hint of familiarity in the lines
of her profile and the way she smiled at the far-spaceman who was with
her.

"She could be Valda," I said. "But they all look much alike."

"She is Valda," said Radwick.

"No," said Sandy, flushing.

"You ask Sandy, Al. She's your ideal and cannot lie to you."

"What about it, Sandy?"

Sandy dropped her wonderful eyes. "Yes," she said. "Valda is somebody
else's ideal now, looking a little different."

"But what about Kelly?" I cried. "I thought an Ideal never changed--"

"Kelly was fighting a war out on Scolaris," said Radwick.

"Kelly--dead?"

"You forgot the war," said Radwick. "The fight against the
Philosterians that Kelly pledged himself to. Apparently he fought and
died for the eternal good."

"But why should she live and go on?" I said in shock. I gripped Sandy's
arm until she winced.

"An ideal can't die," said Sandy. "When we are killed it is only the
person who worshipped us."

Kelly--dead out on the Stardust Overdrive--among the red and blue times
and the ringing ideal bells! It was a little too far off and rich, even
for me.

"I was thinking of going back to Scolaris myself," I said bitterly.
"And maybe fighting."

"You would fight," said Radwick. "You would die. An ideal must always
kill an imperfect man who cannot reach it. Sometimes it is Kelly or the
millions of Kellys physically dead in war. Sometimes it is only a part
of a man that an ideal kills."

Sandy jumped up so fast that she knocked over a water glass.

"Please, Al, please--"

But it was too late. I saw her glorious hair fade into a dull, ordinary
mass. Her arms thickened, her breasts got smaller. Her body shifted
under the dress with realistic imperfections. Her skin coarsened. She
was still attractive now, but no more so than a thousand other women in
New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

I stood up but she had already made the motion to withdraw. "I will
manage," she said. "We will say goodbye now. Your perspective has
changed and I can no longer stand you."

I said nothing, being too full of new thoughts and feelings. She walked
away towards the bar. As she approached she caught the attention of a
near spaceman and seemed to improve at once. Seemed to regain some of
her lost beauty.

"You see how unsatisfactory the Ideals are," said Radwick.

"And yours--"

Radwick gestured at the sugar cubes that were damp now with the water
Sandy had spilled.

"A far-spaceman did the same for me, Al," he said. On the table was a
circle of sugar cubes which symbolized the ideal, like an "o". Radwick
put his hand in the middle of it and turned his hand, pushing the cubes
in distortion so they became a zero, or "0". He grinned up at me.

"Nothing is greater," he said, "and we must check in tomorrow for the
Overdrive. It's time to go out again."

"I won't be going," I said. "I don't want any more of the Stardust
Overdrive."

"Too bad. There is much to learn out there."

I laughed at him playing with his cubes. "Yeah, there's a lot to
learn--but we've got it right here too, and a better word for it.
Dreams."

He looked up at me quizzically. "Dreams?"

"That's right. You know--'the grass is always greener' stuff. When you
get tired of facing reality you can sign on the Stardust Overdrive.
Treat yourself to a thrill--the biggest in the cosmos. I've found the
answer I was looking for, Radwick, the thing you haven't been able to
find with all your mathematical cube symbols. Men stay on the Stardust
Overdrive and _with_ an Ideal only because they choose a fantasy life
to reality. They _think_ they have it better out there on Scolaris.
Better? They fight and die just as they would on Earth. The rub comes
in when you realize you're only being a sucker for another race--doing
what the Scolarians want you to do so they don't have to do it all by
themselves. You can have your ideals and deep space thrills. It's a
cheap price for your life--just as it was for Kelly."

He kept staring at me and I saw it wasn't sinking in. So I gave him a
mock salute. "Think it over, Radwick."

I turned away and he called after me.

"Where are you going?"

I looked back at him and grinned. "I'm going to call up my Ideal--the
only one that's real."

I let him chew on that and went to the nearest tele to tell my wife I
was home....

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TICKET TO THE STARS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
