The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Queen of Space, by Joseph Slotkin

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Queen of Space

Author: Joseph Slotkin

Release Date: September 27, 2021 [eBook #66395]

Language: English


Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE QUEEN OF SPACE ***




                          The Queen of Space

                           By Joseph Slotkin

               Helen LaTour had the best hip wriggle in
            galactic Burleyque. In fact, it was so good she
            hipped herself smack into another dimension!...

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              August 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I was relaxin' with my second Plutonian Stinger in the dignified
atmosphere of Charley's Venusian Retreat when there was this strange
noise outside the dive, like a flock of hot jets hittin' the
atmosphere. Right after a character comes bustin' through the door.

He looks behind him, scared-like, wipin' his forehead with a
handkerchief as big as one of Charley's tablecloths, only cleaner. He
stops near my table.

"I beg your pardon, would you mind if I joined you?"

"Listen, buster, if you got a ulterior motif, such as a touch, you kin
hop a jet, and--" I starts. Then I get a really good look, and hear
myself sayin', "Hey, you don't look so good. Maybe you better sit down."

"Thank you, oh thank you very much," he says, floppin' onto one of
Charley's flexible plastic stools.

"Well, I guess I kin maybe be a sucker and go fer just one," I says,
while he is still mutterin' somethin' to hisself. "Waiter! Hey, mug!" I
turns back to the little fella, feelin' real expansive, like they say.

"What'll be your pleasure, buster?"

"Oh, but please allow me."

Well, this is a new angle--a panhandler puttin' hisself on the pan.
But far be it from me to refuse a barroom curtsy, so I orders another
Jupiter sling.

"I'll have two of those drinks on your tray," the little guy pipes up
to the waiter. And the mug, who is also one of Charley's best bouncers,
almost drops his load.

"Hey, mister, these here's Plutonian stingers," the waiter yells.

"Y'know what's in them things, fella?" I chimes in. "They get ground
vesicantus herbs from Pluto, and--"

"Oh, what difference does it make?" The little guy looked mournful.
"He'll get me sooner or later, and then--"

"He?" Maybe I had this little guy all wrong. Maybe he was a nut that
had decided to bolt.

"Yes. Perhaps you heard that heat ray gun being discharged, just as I
came in."

"Oh. So that's what them noises was."

"Yes. Wherever I go, _he_ shoots at me. Waits for me to leave the
building, and then shoots at me."

"Well, mister, again it's none a my business, but--if you're carryin'
any asteroids around--they kin be cashed anywhere. Lots of guys would
take pot shots at ya."

"Oh, Luigi isn't interested in my--money."

"Luigi?" That name sent shudders goin' around my curvature.

"Precisely." He gives with a long sigh. "I've been dodging him for some
time now."

"Mister," I says, "everybody knows what a dangerous guy Luigi is. Why,
they got his mug on the wanted wall in every space station from here to
the outer galaxies."

"Yes, I presume they have."

"I figure one of these days the cops is gonna pin enough on him to
make him look like a astronavigator's space map," I adds.

"Oh, I doubt if the space control will ever have the opportunity to
apprehend him here on Venus. This is still a wild, mostly unsettled
planet, you know. And besides, Luigi is too smart," says this little
guy, like he knows Luigi personal.

"Yeh, he sure is. Uh--what's he got on you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The little guy reaches over like he doesn't know he's takin' the
Plutonian stinger right from under me nose, and says sort of
thoughtful-like, "He thinks I stole his girl."

"Yeh. Yeh, sure, that would make _any_ fella ma--" I starts, then it
seeps through, and I looks at this little, skinny, runty guy, only I
can't laugh.

"Oh, I didn't of course. But the fact that she was last seen entering
my apartment, and that she never left it, at least not visibly--well,
that makes it terribly difficult to convince him--"

"Now wait a minute--"

"Oh, I don't expect anyone to believe me, anymore. Sometimes I find it
hard to believe myself."

"D-do you know who Luigi's gal is?" I finally stutters.

"Was," he corrects, mournful-like. This sort of scared me. Either
this guy was the kind of crank they never use to wind up a cold jet,
or women had changed a lot since the last time I enriched my culture
by attending a performance of Flossie's Follies at the Little Venus
Circuit Burly-que.

"Mister, I ain't lookin' fer no trouble," I mutters, edgin' back on my
stool.

"Oh, but I assure you, I'm telling the truth."

"Helen LaTour, the terrific blonde," I says, meaningful-like.

"The same!"

"The queen of the burly circuit," I goes on, without realizin' that I
am stretched halfway across the table, shoutin' into his ear because
of a slight argument going on down the bar. "The most luscious hunk of
stuff that ever shook a notion to go on the stage," I enlarges. "Right
out of this world," I finishes up. "Right?"

"Precisely. Right out of this world."

"In your apartment?"

"In my apartment."

Now, I figures that maybe he was one of these here not-so-juvenile
delinquents what believes that if they can't have it, they can at least
kill it, so I starts edgin' away, but then I gets a sudden thought.

"You sure the cops ain't on your trail, bud?"

"No, but if Luigi doesn't get me, it's only a matter of time until they
will be. After all, anyone such as her, disappearing--"

"I thought she was out of town."

"No. Just out of this world."

Them words take on a sinister-like significance, the way he says them.
Then he gets up, sober-lookin' in spite of them Plutonian stingers that
would of disintegrated even a Martian.

"If you wouldn't mind running the risk, I'd appreciate your company.
I'm going back to my place now. The--ah--refreshments here lack the
needed stimulation. I have a much better supply home."

Now, maybe it was that stinger and the Uranus delight, because under
ordinary circumstances I would turn down such a invite from a guy who
is no doubt a no-orbit meteorite. But then I realize--he's invitin' me
to his apartment where, accordin' to _his_ story, the luscious LaTour,
queen of the strip world, has not been seen since. So I gives in.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we reaches his apartment, he snaps on the lights, like he was
nervous somebody might be hidin' inside, and locks the door tight. I
watch close. He leaves the key in the lock, which makes me feel some
easier.

He has quite a nice little joint. Not gaudy, but nice. He goes to one
bookshelf, presses a button, and a shelf slides back. Inside, he's got
enough wiggle-water to fill all the Martian canals and irrigate the
Moon.

Well, we're heisting a couple, and then he starts talkin' like we was
never interrupted.

"Please forgive me for not introducing myself sooner, but under the
circumstances--My name is Timothy J. Brown, M.D., Ph.D., M.A. and A.B."

"Oh. Well, me monicker is Benjamin Spelvin, but you kin call me Benny."

"Very well--uh--Benny. I am, you see, a psychiatrist."

"Oh, yeh. But you'd never be able to figure _me_ out, Doc. I got so
many bumps on my head from hittin' th' anti-gravitational screens on
the jets during free fall--"

He laughs. "No, that would be a phrenologist you're thinking of,
Benny. I'm concerned mainly with psychological abnormalities and
mal-adjustments of the psyche. I'm also known as something of an expert
in the more physical science of phenomenology," he adds modest-like.

Now all this adds up to minus zero to me, but I'm sittin' in a
comfortable apartment in the better section of Venus, I got me a
glass of Uranus Number Eight, Vintage 2480, so I lets the little
fellow ramble on. Finally I says, "Uh, Mister--uh, Doc, you was sayin'
somethin' about Helen LaTour, the strip--"

"Oh, oh yes, I was coming to that. Well, now--uh, where was I? Oh,
yes ... Benny, these were the events that brought me, a modest
scientist, into contact with this Luigi and that--uh--delectable
creature, Miss Helen LaTour. And I'll leave it to you to decide for
yourself that I am telling the truth."

       *       *       *       *       *

Not so long ago (the Professor starts out) I was visited here by a
rather attractive young woman who told me her name was Helen LaTour.

It is true, she had called me first on the telescreen, and at the sight
of that lovely--um--face, obviously mirroring distress, I assumed that,
having heard of my reputation she had sought me out for--um--treatment.

Still, it was rather--um--disturbing to me to be interrupted by this
beautiful young woman while I was in the midst of my studies.

"I'm grateful to you fer seein' me, P'fessor, honest I am," she
began, seating herself immediately, and crossing her--um--quite shapely
legs ... er, limbs, that is.

"Well, Miss--uh--LaTour, wasn't it?"

"Yeah. Helen LaTour. You heard of me 'way up here on Venusian Heights?"

"The--ah--name has a familiar ring. But I must remind you, I have
restricted my practice to native Venusians."

"Yeah, sure, Doc. Still, I figured you, bein' an Earth man, and me a
Earth woman, well--patriotism...."

Her eyes were indeed lovely, gazing at me so appealingly, and
I must confess she aroused my--um--sense of Earthy--that is,
Earthy--um--patriotism.

"Uh--just what can I do for you, Miss LaTour?"

"I dunno yet, doc. I'm happy in my work. I got a swell boy friend,
name of Luigi, maybe you heard of him? No? Well, I got no reason to be
unhappy, and yet--"

"Just a moment, please. What is your work?"

"Doc, I been known in the strip tease game as the Queen of the Solid
Shake."

"You are--er--a night club dancer?"

"Night clubs? Nah, I never leave the boards, Doc. I got my own circuit,
my agent takes good care of my bookings, and my wardrobe is the envy of
ingenues from Mercury to Pluto."

"You--act?"

"Yeah. Plenty of action, Doc."

"Just what type of--er--roles do you play?"

"I'm a tease artist, Doc. I take it off. Strip."

Every word this remarkable young lady uttered was punctuated by the
most fluid and expressive movements of her--um--agile--um--body, but I
must confess I was becoming more and more--er--confused.

"Want a demonstration?"

By now, I had begun to gather what she meant, and hastily asserted that
such a procedure would be unnecessary.

"Well, Doc, I'm solid sender, see? Hep with the jet.... Right out of
this world."

"Yes?"

"That's just the trouble. I _been_ right out of this world."

"You have dreams?"

"I dunno. Lemme explain. I'm opening next week after a layoff on
Earth, see? Them Earthmen are gettin' sorta tame, but we figure these
Venusians will appreciate what I got to offer when they come in after a
long, muggy day at them cold uranium mines, see?"

I commented that I had made some notations about the working conditions
of the native Venusians comparing them, especially atmospherically, to
the phenomenon of what is known on Earth as ACM--ancient, California
smog.

"Yeah, sure, sure, Doc. Well, they got the whole show at the Little
Venus Theater built around my number. I got my whole new wardrobe, with
the special anti-gravity zippers, some classy plastic bubbles, and a
special arrangement cooked up by Ziggy, the trumpeter from Mercury.
They're billing me tops, and I figured out a routine that's a sure
sensation. I been practicing it all during my vacation.

"I even been holding off Luigi so I could practice," Miss LaTour said.

"Luigi--that's your boy friend's name?"

"Yeah," she laughed, and added, "I been practicin' by myself so much he
thinks I been cheatin' on him." She winked her lovely eye at me.

"Well, you should see this number," she said. "It begins with me
wigglin' like this."

       *       *       *       *       *

She began to swing about the room. I had to confess to myself that,
standing there, her dark eyes flashing, her long, rather--uh--shapely
legs, and--um--well, it was obvious that if anyone were better
qualified to interpret love, I had never seen it. But as I observed her
closely, she seemed truly agitated.

"Why, I even learned a couple of new languages, so I could sing a part
of my song in each language--one from each planet."

"Er--I believe we can dispense with that."

"But that's just it, Doc. I gotta tell you about it. It's all sort of
symbolic, see? A sort of United Planets number. The idea is that all of
the planets are held together by love, real, solid love, the kind that
grips you."

It was most apparent to me at that juncture that her--um--talents
_were_ of the--um--gripping variety.

I begged her, however, to come to the source of her difficulty.

"Well, the number's comin' along terrific. I got it down perfect, every
movement, every swing and every sway. I feel I reached a new peak in my
art, when--just a couple of days ago--it happens."

I begged her to be explicit.

"Well, I'm doing the routine in my dressing-room, see? First the
singing as a tease, see? Then the bubbles, then I start playin' with
the anti-gravity zippers, see? Well, I get my skirt off, and then my
blouse, and I've got panties and a brassiere, of course, using the
skirt as a kind of screen, see? Well, there I am--"

"Yes?"

"In my panties and bra, of course."

"Of course."

"Usin' the skirt as a sort of a fan, see? Then I get to the part
where I suddenly lift the skirt over my head, and I give a sort of
wiggle--well, it ain't a wiggle, exactly, with my hips, and then--"

"Yes, yes, and then, Miss LaTour?"

"That's it, Doc," she said unhappily. "That's when it happened. One
minute I was standin' there in my room, practicin', and then--the room
wasn't there anymore."

I watched her closely--observing her reactions, of course.

"Where do you suppose the room went?"

"I dunno. It just wasn't there."

"And--uh--where were you?"

"That's the funniest part of it. I didn't seem to be in a room at all.
I seemed to be in a large, open space and, Doc, _there was sand under
my feet_!"

Her particular hallucination began to take coherent--um--shape in my
mind, now.

"You say there was sand under your feet--and you were out-of-doors?"

"Like in some sort of desert, Doc. And Doc--_there was someone coming
toward me_!"

"I see. A--man, doubtless."

"Yeah, yeah! And when he saw me standing there, he came rushing at me.
Well, I remembered I didn't have much on, so I lowered my skirt."

"I see. And this man. He--chased you?"

"Well--no. When I lowered my skirt, he stopped."

"He--stopped."

"Yeah. Well, I figures here's a man, and I got my new routine, let's
try it out. So I raised my skirt again, watching his face, and went on
from there."

"On. From there. I see."

"And Doc," she became intensely excited, and I must confess I found it
fairly difficult to preserve my own calm, "when I went through that
hip-sway, his face became dim, and then sort of cloudy, and then, in
a flash, there I was back in my room again just as if it never had
happened."

       *       *       *       *       *

I said, "Miss LaTour, tell me, when you were a child, were you always
imagining that men would turn around to look at you: that is, that they
were always looking at you?"

"They _were_," she stated flatly. "Hey--you think I'm imagining I was
somewhere else? Well, you're wrong, Doc. I was on a desert, I tell
you--and what's more, when I got back in my room, there was sand on
the bottom of my slippers!"

"Of course," I soothed her. "I'm not arguing with you at all."

"Look--" She became vehement. "I'll do my routine right here, in front
of you, and you'll see--"

I pleaded with her that this was entirely unnecessary, but she began to
walk enticingly about the room, humming some tune.

I was shocked at first, but in spite of myself, the eternal attraction
of the feminine form asserted itself, and I watched the rest of the
proceedings with, I must admit, keen interest. Miss LaTour was indeed
a--um--skillful young woman, and generously equipped to prove her
points.

"You see now?" She was standing before me, holding her skirt over her
head, scantily clothed otherwise. "Just about now, I go into my new
hip-sway, like this, and--"

And then she was gone.

She had begun an enticing--indeed, fascinating wiggle of as excellently
rounded a pair of hips as I had ever seen, and then, without warning of
any sort, she had vanished.

Well, you can imagine how perturbed I was. I searched the entire
apartment thoroughly. For a moment I was inclined to believe it was
merely an hallucination of my own. But there was the evidence of the
clothing she had already--um--shed, lying on the floor, to prove my own
sanity.

Then I thought of the drinking cabinet I--ah--keep here for my
patients, and I turned to it with shaking hands. As I was pouring
myself a Uranian Delight, I heard her voice suddenly, and the glass
crashed from my hands.

"I'm back, Doc."

Indeed, there she was, standing as she had before, her skirt raised
about her head with one hand, and in the other what looked like _some
sort of human hand_!

"Guess where I was this time."

I confess I was shaking violently, but she laughed, and approached me
coquettishly, showing me what appeared on closer examination to be an
artifact of some sort, rather like a metal glove. As I peered at it she
sighed deeply.

"What a knight!"

"Extraordinary, but I fancied I heard you say, 'What a night'!"

"That's what I said, Doc."

"But you've only been gone about five minutes. How can you say--?"

"Search me. All I know is, I just spent the last three hours with a
knight."

"A night, in a few hours! How--?"

"I said 'knight'. The kind that rides a horse--you know."

I stared at her, but she was coyly putting on her clothes, a half-smile
on her lovely face.

"He was so sweet, Doc. Talked a kind of funny French, but I could
understand enough to intuition the rest--Anyhow, after awhile I
remembered you'd be worried about me, so I sneaked out of his castle,
and went through my routine up to the point where I wiggle my hips--and
here I am."

"But--where _were_ you?"

"Search me. He said his name was Launcelot."

"What?"

"Launcelot. That's what he said his name was. That's a pretty name."
She giggled, "I wonder what Luigi would say."

       *       *       *       *       *

I was shocked, but then the full significance of this young lady's
strange powers flooded over me. I regarded her seriously.

"Miss LaTour, do you realize what you've accomplished by a mere wiggle
of your hips?"

She paused in fastening the garter to her filmy stocking. "I built up
quite a reputation. I know that."

I fired her with my glance. "At first I thought perhaps you were
suffering from--well, no matter. Now, either we're both mad, or you've
penetrated the fourth dimension and bridged space and time."

She appeared highly uninterested. "That's fine, Doc. Uh--my seams
straight? Thanks. Now if you kin figure out some way to get that--what
did you call it? Oh, yeah, penetration--out of my act, everything'll be
O.K. After all, I got my cash customers to consider."

"Oh, your act is unimportant now," I said excitedly. "Consider what
this means to science! With that little--ah--wiggle of your hips you've
found a warp in space that's projected you into another time sphere,
proportionately co-existent with our own!"

"That's great, Doc. Now that you know how I do it, how about helping
me to get rid of it? Although--" She hesitated. "I _would_ like to see
Launce again. I wonder if he's married?"

"Perhaps," I mused, "this phenomenon manifested itself here on Venus
and not when you were on Earth because of the peculiar orbit of the
Venusian--" And then I realized she was waiting for me to answer her.

"Launcelot? I--uh--think he's been carrying on an affair with a lady
named--um--Guinevere."

"A two-timer, huh?"

I avoided this trend in the conversation. "Miss LaTour, apparently
it depends where you do your--um--contortions. Apparently in your
dressing-room you emerged onto a desert. While in my apartment, it
brought you straight into an ancient age--"

"Hot asteroids, so that's it!" Her lovely face was suffused with an
unmistakable eagerness. "Look, Doc, supposin' I come up here again some
time, so I can see him again?"

I was properly outraged. "Hardly! Come to my apartment so that you can
carry on an affair with a man dead for thousands of years? Certainly
not!"

She was puzzled. "He didn't seem dead to me."

"Miss LaTour!" I was desperate. "Do you realize what this would mean
to science?" I tried to explain to her, "For centuries, man has tried
to find the answer to the secrets of the action of mass subject to
certain movements at certain speeds, knowing that mass and energy were
identical--"

"I coulda given them the answer any time they wanted to catch me at the
Little Venus Burly-que," she retorted fliply. "I use plenty of energy,
but, brother, I never waste a movement."

"Please, young lady, this flippant attitude toward science--"

"What do I care about science? All I want is my routine. Now, can you
hep me to what's putting the crimp in my act, so's I can iron out that
there fourth-dimensional wiggle?"

"I'd have to study this peculiar phenomenon much more closely--"

"Nothin' doin'! You seen all you're going to!"

"But you don't understand," I pleaded.

"Lissen! I built myself up from a walk-on in the chorus. Worked hard,
see? Figured out my own bumps and grinds and hip-rolls, just so's I
could make myself the biggest tease name in the galaxy. And now, what
goes? I got what you call a fourth-dimensional wiggle that gets me
out through somebody's space warp into somebody's back yard who lived
before I was born! This here thing's warpin' my personality. I'm fed
up," she cried.

I was frantic. "But you've a debt to society--"

"Lissen. I pay my debt every time I walk out on that stage. Think of
all the men I make forget they're married, or their office, or factory
or farm troubles--or their income taxes! How would _they_ feel, if I
disappeared in the middle of my strip? They want to see _more_ of me,
not _less_!

"I thought maybe you could help me lick this thing--whatever you call
it. But under that beard you're just like all them other guys. I'm fed
up on double talk. Let's just forget the whole thing, Doc. Good-by,
professor!"

And with that, she flounced out of my apartment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, the little guy stopped talkin', then, and takes another drink and
I find I been sittin' on the edge of my chair, like I was stymied by a
paralaray.

"B-but--you said that she disappeared from here," I says like a guy in
a trance.

"Oh yes indeed," he smiles at me. "I was too wrapped up in her by then
to let her off so easily."

"Y'mean--you followed her up?"

"I felt sure that if I could just see her again, and explain the value
of her peculiar, indeed amazing talent, to science--well, at any rate
I knew where to go. I had never in all my life frequented one of those
burlesque houses.

"After the performance I endeavored to see her backstage. That was when
I had my first brush with Mr. Luigi."

"Tough character, ain't he?"

"Extremely so. He warned me not to bother her, and when I tried to
explain, he threatened me.

"And then one evening," the little guy says, settling back in his chair
with a hooker of Saturnian Sling, and that far-away look in his eyes
again, "just when I least expected it, my robot butler announced her.

"'Oh, I'm so glad you've changed your mind, Miss LaTour,' I greeted
her. 'And now if you're ready, we can continue our experiments without
further delay.'

"'Nix, doc, I ain't here for any more experiments,' were her first
words.

"I was non-plussed. 'You're not? Then why did you--?'

"'Oh, I dunno. I been practisin' that space-warpin' hip-wiggle in
private, see? And I been meetin' all sorts of characters. But not the
one I got a real interest in.'

"I sensed trouble. 'Miss LaTour, if you've come here for--'

"'I'm getting bored, Doc. Luigi's gettin' too jealous. Why he even
thinks that you--' She leered at me archly. 'Well, never mind. But them
few hours I spent with that there Launcelot--'

"She began to hum a few bars of the song she used in her--um--routine,
despite my pleas.

"'Miss LaTour, please don't begin that again!'

"'What're ya kickin' about, professor? You're gettin' a free show,
ain'tcha? At least up to a point y'are--'

"'Please, Miss LaTour, put on that blouse. I must warn you--'

"Her lovely bare arms stopped their gyrations. 'Huh? Warn me? About
what?'

"'That time and space are really fluid, as that ancient philosopher,
Einstein, suspected back in the Twentieth Century. You may not reach
the same time-space continuum again. Why, you may even--um--wiggle
yourself into the middle of a Pharaoh's tomb--or perhaps the bottom of
the ocean which now covers what used to be ancient Russia!'

"'I'll take my chances, Doc. Hmmm.... Hmmm.... Pretty good, huh?'

"'I implore you, Miss LaTour!'

"Despite my desperate efforts, she began to remove another of
her--um--garments.

"'Da de da, my bra. Da de daa doo, my shoe. And now, Launcelot, honey,
here I--'

"She had come to the hip-wiggle that curiously projected her through
some warp in space. There was a sound as though a rubber tube were
being sucked inside out--and she vanished."

       *       *       *       *       *

The little fella emptied his glass and filled it again.

"I waited for what seemed an eternity. But she never reappeared, to
this very day."

I takes another slug of that Martian wiggle-water myself, then I
squints at the professor over my glass.

"I guess maybe you been hittin' the bottle yourself lately, huh Doc?"

"What? Oh, you don't believe me, do you, Benny?"

"Well, it ain't that exactly, but ya gotta admit--"

He gets excited again. "Here, I'll show you." He goes to a drawer,
takes somethin' soft and shiny out, and comes back, wavin' them under
my nose. My nose doesn't object.

"I have proof. Take a look at these."

They was Helen LaTour's size, all right. I gotta admit that, okay. And
they _was_ pretty. Especially when I starts thinkin' of what filled 'em.

"She left them behind when she went through that space warp. It's all
there is left of her."

"Hmmm. Say, doc, y'sure these ain't some other dame's? Maybe yer
wife's--?"

"I assure you, I have never been married." He looks wistful-like.
"Since meeting Miss LaTour, I grant you I have toyed with the
speculation of what marital bliss might have been like with someone of
the caliber of--"

Just then, the window behind me pops open with a crash that breaks it
into a zillion pieces, and into the room steps Luigi.

I couldn't of been more scared if I'd started seeing snakes, which I
had, since Luigi looks like the meanest kind of viper in the zoo.

"Okay, pop," he snarls, deadly-like. "Where ya keepin' her?"

The little guy doesn't even turn a hair, whiles I'm startin' to get rid
of all the stuff I been drinkin', reflex-like, so's I'll be lighter fer
the takeoff when I kin get my feet unfroze.

"How did you get here?" the prof inquires, cool like a cucumber.

"I climbed in through that there space warp you been warblin' about,"
Luigi sneers, and I can see he is in a definitely unsociable mood.

"You!" he hollers, looking at where I was before he hollered, and when
I come down off the top of the bookcase he says, "What do you know
about it?"

"Luigi," I peeps, "I ain't never seen this guy until tonight."

"He's telling the truth, Luigi," the little guy says, and I coulda
kissed him fer it.

"Okay, pop. So now that you're talkin', start singin'. And it better
be on the level, too. What did you do with my gal? C'mon, spill it, or
you'll be spillin' more than words."

"I told you the truth the first time," the little guy says, with
terrific dignity fer a future corpse.

I thought Luigi would bust a jet-gasket, but all of a sudden he calms
down, and gets an expression on his puss like a tiger tryin' to smile.

"Look pop," he says, "I know how it is." And he's almost beggin' now.
"I know LaTour. She's gotta have a change once't in a while. But I love
that dame, see? And I gotta have her back. So if you'll just tell me
where she is, I'm willin' to forget all about everythin' else--"

The little guy just looks at him sort of pitying-like. "I assure you
I'd like to help you, Luigi, but--"

He stops, with his mouth open, his eyes poppin' out of his head. He's
starin' at somethin' behind me and Luigi's.

       *       *       *       *       *

I hears a low, silvery laugh, kinda like little bells tinklin', and
the kinda voice you figure that there pie-eyed piper musta had on his
flute, is sayin':

"Well! Hello, suckers!"

When Luigi hears that laugh, he whirls around like a weathercock on top
of a landship station, his face all red and puffed up.

"Baby!" He gets that far, then _his_ eyes start to pop out. Mine are
already rollin' on the rug.

Standin' there, laughin' like she is havin' the time of her luscious
life, is the Queen of Burly-que, Helen LaTour herself, in, what I mean,
the flesh.

She is holdin' some white sort of a robe or somethin' over her head,
and aside from that, she ain't got a stitch on that knockout of a body
of hers.

Luigi gets his wind back, and starts gettin' tough again. "So you been
two-timin' me fer this old goat here, huh?"

"I assure you, this is as much of a shock to me--"

But the LaTour ain't payin' them no attention. She pulls the robe half
over her, and gives with that tinklin' laugh again.

"I didn't expect to come back here," she chuckles. "I made a mistake."

"Where you been?" Luigi moves towards her, like he was gonna hit her.

"Don't you take another step, you lug!"

She sure knew how to handle men. Luigi stops like he's been slugged by
a Uranian, and his face gets all purple and pleading.

"Aw come on, babe, gimme a break. Ain't you been hangin' out with this
little jerk long enough?"

"Th-that garment--" The little guy is starin' at the robe LaTour is
holdin' over the better parts of her. "That white robe--where did you
get it?" he sorta wheezed.

"This? Oh, this old thing. It's just part of my old wardrobe. The guy I
married gave it to me."

"You--_what_?" Luigi's puss turns from purple to pale white. "You ain't
married?"

"Oh, no?" LaTour looks at him like he's a Venusian rainworm, and the
lug goes inta another Technicolor trance.

"But I'm gettin' fed up already," she yawns. "I met a fella's got a
lot more S.A. than the guy I'm hitched to now. Yeah," she giggles, "My
new fella knows how to appreciate a gal. Why, he even judged a beauty
contest once."

"You take that jet line to Atlantic City, baby?" Luigi says.

The LaTour laughs, and catches the little guy's eye. "Professor, tell
this jerk here what I'm talkin' about."

The little guy nods. "So that's why you didn't come back," he says.

"Yeah. I been promised to my new fella, and I ain't one to break a
promise."

"The apple of discord," the little guy is mutterin'. "'Twas ever thus,
my dear. But why are you here now?"

"I been tellin' my new boy friend about show business. He kept beggin'
me to do my stuff, and I finally gave in. Right after we eloped--maybe
it's the ham in me or somethin', but I did my routine fer him, and I
guess I musta forgot and added that extra wiggle.

"I figured he had it comin'," she says. "Anyhow, here I am."

"And you'll stay here now, baby, wherever you been?" For a tough guy,
Luigi sure looked soft-boiled, now.

The LaTour gave him a look that ain't had the benefit of Ivory Soap.
"I'm goin' back."

"Aw, baby...."

"I can speak their language fine now. Besides, there's gonna be hell to
pay because we eloped. And I gotta stick by Paris."

"You goin' to France, Miss LaTour?" I blurts out.

       *       *       *       *       *

She laughs. Luigi is scowlin', but the little professor is just noddin'
like he understands everything.

"I been there, fella," she says to me. "I been everywhere." She starts
to hum a song I ain't never heard before.

"This here's LaTour's farewell tour, men," she says, startin' to do
some fancy movin' around that makes my skin crawl, watchin' her.

"Baby, you ain't gonna start your routine here, are ya?" Luigi says.

"Shut up, creep, I gotta concentrate," she squelches him.

The professor pipes up like he's half asleep. "You know, Miss LaTour,
there must be a destiny about all this...."

"La de day--yeah, that's what that there Aphrodite told my new boy
friend," she throws a dazzlin' smile at him over her shoulder, wavin'
that white robe around her flawless body.

"It won't seem the same on Venus without you," the professor sort of
moans.

"Shut up, professor," Luigi hollers, then that tough voice of his
breaks, like he was almost cryin'. "Baby, stop dancin' around."

"Outa my way, ya lug. I'm workin' up to the finale."

"Please, baby. I'll--I'll give ya a million asteroids, honey. I won't
smoke no more of them there Saturn Stogies--"

The LaTour's movin' around gets more fancy all the time. She is all
the moonbeams and flowers I ever seen, rolled into one. It was easy to
unnerstan' how she got to be the big star that she was--even here on
rough and ready Venus. She had class, and somethin' else--somethin'
that made ya keep watchin' her every movement, like you was hungry for
somethin', but ya didn't know what. And you wanted to jump up and
down, and holler, but ya just couldn't move because you was watchin' so
hard.

She was wigglin' them beautiful, dimpled, rounded hips--

And then she wasn't there anymore.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Hey!" Luigi runs around the room like he is goin' space-daffy.

"It's no use, Luigi," the little guy says, lookin' sadder than ever.
"She's gone back. And this time I suspect it's forever," the prof says.

Luigi comes over to the little guy and grabs him by the throat.

"She can't do that to me. Gone back where? Y'gotta tell me."

"She's gone back to Paris," the prof says.

Luigi snarls like he is gettin' a Martian sand-fever fit. "What?
Leavin' me fer some Frenchman? I'll--"

"No." The professor pulls away from Luigi. "This Paris is a part of
ancient Greece--a young shepherd prince whose theft of the wife of
Menelaos started the Trojan War."

"Huh?" Luigi is as up in the air as I am.

"Helen...." The little, fella looks sort of thoughtful. "Of course.
That was her name. Helen of Troy--LaTour. The queen of space. 'The
face that launched a thousand ships.'"

The professor nods at us. "Who would have ever believed--"

"Okay, pop," Luigi looks tough again, and I am plenty scared.

"Hey Luigi," I hollers, "You kin see the little guy is tellin' the
truth. He didn't do nothin'--"

Luigi turns around, and I kin see the little red specks at the corners
of his eyes. "Who says he did?" he snarls. He heads fer the open
window, reachin' in his vest fer his blood-freezer, and I kin hear him
mutterin'.

"I'm goin' after that guy Paris, and when I find him, I'm gonna turn
the blaster on and smash him right through that there space warp!

"Yeah," he hollers, standin' there framed by that window fer a minute
before he jets off, with all them millions of stars blazin' like fury
in the cleared-up Venusian night sky.

"No lousy Greek is gonna steal my girl and get away with it!"

I dunno. I ain't seen Luigi since, but I'm willin' t'wager a platterful
of Plutonian Stingers that he ain't never gonna master that there
hip-wiggle.

Not like Helen LaTour, he ain't.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE QUEEN OF SPACE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
