The Project Gutenberg eBook of Eight Million Dollars From Mars!, by
Winston Marks

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Eight Million Dollars From Mars!

Author: Winston Marks

Release Date: October 1, 2021 [eBook #66435]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS FROM
MARS! ***





                   Eight Million Dollars From Mars!

                           By Winston Marks

                Pauker had killed ten men to get eight
             million dollars. Now his flight to Mars would
             insure his safety from justice. Or would it?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             November 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


His poise was perfect as he crossed the concourse with the highly
vaulted ceiling. He moved with purpose but not in haste, his arms
swinging freely, eyes straight ahead. At his heels, the squat, robot
luggage-carrier dutifully followed the "bone" which he carried in his
right hand.

At the long baggage counter, the husky, human attendant took the "bone"
and led the carrier under the counter through the low passage onto a
platform scale. He whistled. "That'll be $4,175.00 excess baggage," he
said.

Pauker nodded curtly and withdrew his billfold. He laid his ticket and
the currency on the counter while the attendant clipped paper tags to
the handles of his four bags, broke off the stubs at the perforations,
shoved the luggage off the cart onto a moving belt and replaced the
"bone" in its "homing" slot. The three-wheel robot rolled off the
scales, out the short tunnel under the counter and headed back for the
entrance.

"We don't see many leather bags here," the man said pleasantly. "They
weigh up too much."

Pauker's eyes darted to the man's face nervously as he examined the
ticket and made change. Was there suspicion in the young, bland
features?

The traveler was well aware of the extravagance of his heavy bags, and
he knew that most interplanetary trippers used the lightest, flimsiest
containers to remain under the 100-pound limit. At the risk of
appearing conspicuous, Pauker had decided on the stronger suit-cases.
There must be no chance of an accidental rupture of his luggage.
Legitimate people don't haul bundles of $1,000 interplanetary bills
around with them--not eight million dollars worth.

But it wasn't the young man's remark that broke his composure. It
was the sight of his four bags bouncing along the endless belt and
disappearing through an arch into the next room. Suppose customs got
nosey?

Normally, his research had revealed, only a cursory X-ray for weapons
was made, and he had delayed checking them through until the last
moment, so it was unlikely they would hold them up. Yet the fear
clutched his belly. He snatched at the baggage tags, his ticket and
change, jammed them in his valuables pouch which was fastened to his
belt, and moved hastily out of the depot.

Signs guided him to the line of waiting vehicles, and in two minutes
he was deposited at the base of the portable, fourstory, passenger
prep-building that sidled parallel to the spaceship.

       *       *       *       *       *

He surrendered his ticket at the ground-level door and was passed into
the men's disrobing room. Naked, except for the waterproof, web belt to
which he attached his pouch of personal effects, he folded his clothing
into the transparent bag with his berth number stamped on it, dropped
it in a marked hopper and stepped into the showers.

More signs led him through the soapy, sluicing bath chamber that
smelled mildly of phenol, through a gusty, hot drying room, and into
the corridor of inoculation booths. It was an ingenious maze of tiny
spaces. You stepped in, placing your feet on the painted foot-prints,
slipped the steel I.D. plate containing your metabolic data into the
slot, and _click_, a measured dose of anti-this-or-that serum shot from
a compressed air needle and penetrated the proper area of the body
without breaking the skin.

Pauker marvelled at the speed with which he moved down the row of
booths. The sliding exit panel from one booth into another remained
closed until the shot was completed, then flipped open, and you moved
on, untouched by human hands. The shots were painless, a mere prickling
sensation, and Pauker compared it to the brutal hypo-punching he had
endured in his youth during military basic training.

By the time he reached the last of the seven booths he was relaxing.
The mechanism of murder, robbery and escape which he had spent five
years planning had functioned perfectly. From the pull of the trigger
to the present moment, the operation was a tribute to his genius of
concentrating scrupulous attention to every minute detail. Now he was
beginning to enjoy the peace of mind that comes to a craftsman when his
work of art nears completion, and he knows success is positive.

As inside man on the fabulous Brinks-Interplanetary robbery, it had
been necessary to accomplish a very expensive identity change when he
dropped out of sight. Over $20,000 of his own savings, spot cash, had
been invested beforehand setting this up. But his biggest risk had been
in the double-cross. It was his biggest risk, and also his greatest
stroke of brilliance.

Staging the rendezvous with his seven underworld accomplices for the
pay-off, he had arranged that they arrive separately. Each in his
individual hideout, had thought it would be a general get-together at
the same place, same hour. Each arrived promptly at a different time
at a different rented flat, but all collected the same lethal payment
something less than an ounce of soft lead.

Ten men had died to bring the fortune into Pauker's hands, three guards
and seven, hoodlums. And each had been marked from the beginning.
Now there were no witnesses, no loose-ends, no chances of meeting an
avenging gangster on Mars, no waiting for a slug in the dark. Neat!
Clean! Perfection as he'd planned.

The entry panel to booth seven clicked behind him, he slipped the I.D.
plate into its slot and felt the sting pluck at his neck as the serum,
drug or whatever needled into his tissues. As he started to step from
the painted foot-marks a voice came hollowly over the partitions, then
louder as the exit door of the booth slid back.

Standing down the hall some ten paces were two men profiled to him. One
was the young, blond baggage man. He was saying, "--with a red scar
under his left eye. You sure you haven't seen him? It's quite import--"

Pauker, shrinking back in the booth, couldn't get entirely out of
view. He jammed his I.D. plate in the slot again, and the exit panel
closed. He exhaled a stale breath with trembling relief and leaned
against the wall. The voices continued, muffled by the partition, but
he could only catch a few words.

"--sorry--blast-off in six minutes--thing about it--not your
responsibility."

Then it was quiet. Pauker waited a full minute before he began tugging
at the exit door. It refused to open. A siren screamed faintly outside,
and a voice boomed a warning down the corridor, "Clear the prep
chamber. Blast-off in four minutes."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pauker fought back his panic. When the smooth, featureless panel failed
to open he stepped back to the hypo machine, winced slightly as the
second shot hit him in the same spot, precisely, and then he moved
swiftly through the panel which fell away, down the corridor, over the
covered ramp into the men's gallery of the spaceship.

A white-uniformed, male attendant hurried him down an aisle of
sponge-padded double-decker bunks, after a quick glance at his I.D.
"You almost missed the boat, mister," he said as he strapped Pauker
down. He slid the needle into an arm vein with an apology. "Sorry, no
time for a local."

Pauker didn't complain. His heart was pounding noisily, and he was much
too upset to notice the stab in his arm. It was the nutrient tube which
would feed him for some nine months in space.

When the male nurse was gone, Pauker realized that a small speaker by
his ear was talking to him, softly, reassuringly, and after he heard
and felt the lump of closing hatches, he began listening.

The voice was finishing a description of the bubble-cities of Mars.
"And of the sixteen metropolitan centers, Marsfield, of course, is
the luxury spot of the planet. The spaceport is located there, and
all passengers clear through this lovely city of recreation. Even if
your business takes you on to the other cities, don't fail to pause
in Marsfield and enjoy the City of Beauty and Pleasure," the soft,
feminine voice urged.

He wouldn't fail to pause, Pauker reflected. Marsfield was his
destination. And now it looked like he'd really make it. That damned
baggage man had given him a bad moment. There was no red scar on his
left cheek, but his over-sensitive imagination had screamed that
Customs had opened his bags and sent this man down to search for him.
Obviously, the baggage man had been looking for another passenger, and
there had been no necessity to retreat into booth seven for concealment.

Oh well, he thought, if he made no worse errors than this he could look
back at a rather faultless operation. An extra shot of some serum might
give him a stiff neck or a headache, but this was a minor thing, and it
served him right for losing his head.

The purring voice in his ear expertly seduced his attention. He knew
it was part of the departure routine to dispel nervousness of the
several hundred passengers aboard, some of whom were bound to be
claustrophobes. The close-packing of humanity was necessary, of course,
from space limitations. So were the arrangements for keeping them
immobile on the whole trip.

This was no ocean liner where you could wander about, swim and play
shuffle-board. You bought your ticket, lay down and played dead for
nine months. It was part of the contract.

On the other hand, as the girl was explaining, "All possible care has
been taken for your safety and comfort. We are about to blast-off
now, and during early acceleration I will continue talking to you,
explaining the many answers to the questions that occur in most
people's minds."

       *       *       *       *       *

The first vibration seemed to start in his own chest, and the frequency
was so low that he felt, rather than heard it. Then the gentle motion
of departure pressed him deeper and deeper into the soft mattress.
The acceleration increased in easy stages so that each breath he drew
seemed only slightly more difficult than the last. The skin of his neck
and face pulled taut, and his lips flattened against his teeth.

"Continue taking deep, slow breaths," the voice advised. "There is no
need for any concern, because your pre-flight physical examination
determined that you are well fitted to withstand the slight discomforts
of space-travel. The several injections you received included carefully
measured doses of narcotics designed to make your journey more pleasant.

"One injection relaxes all your muscles, which, in turn, lowers your
metabolism and makes intravenous feeding adequate. You will know no
hunger or nausea, even when we go into free-flight."

There had been no change in the voice at blast-off, and Pauker realized
it must be recorded. It was all he could do to keep from swallowing his
tongue. Talking would have been impossible. They relaxed your muscles,
all right. It amounted to virtual paralysis!

Her spiel was clever, though. Rather than trying to lure people from
thinking about their bodies, which would be virtually impossible, the
woman's message dwelled on their sensations, making them sound normal.
She enumerated the purposes of the seven inoculations, one by one,
describing the immunities gained, and explaining the purposes of the
several drug injections.

"In booth six," she said, "you received a mild narcotic which will
allow you to drift into a time-consuming slumber if you so desire at
any time. The nature of this drug is to invoke a feeling of extreme
well-being, and the dreams that usually result are not dissimilar to
the old opium dreams of the orient.

"The slumber is shallow, however, and you may retrieve your senses from
the torpor at any moment with the slightest concentration."

Pauker was sweating profusely. Stuffy, he thought. No, just warm. There
was a slowly moving flood of fresh air flowing over the whole length of
his naked body, but it seemed, rather hot. The sweat oozed out heavily
to bathe his body, then the warm, very dry air began evaporating it.
Now the breeze felt delicious and cool.

Even as he wondered how the ship adjusted the air temperature to his
own needs the female voice launched into an explanation.

"Perhaps the most interesting injection you received was the
thermal adjustment retardation drug. At this moment many of you are
experiencing delightful sensations of changing temperature. If you are
too warm, the moving air will seem cool as an ocean breeze. When your
skin cools, almost to the point of chill, then the air will seem to
turn warm and cozy.

"Actually, the temperature of the air is held carefully at 98.6
degrees, Fahrenheit, the exact temperature of the normal human body.
This is to help minimize your bodies' metabolism, or fuel consumption."

       *       *       *       *       *

These people thought of everything. Pauker wondered how many tons of
food-stuffs they saved having to haul just by this one device.

"A single unfortunate effect was found from this close temperature
control, however. Space-medical records revealed that if the body is
permitted to adjust to a single temperature over too long a period, the
body mechanism for its own heat-control becomes, you might say, rusty.
That is, when the passenger passes from the ship into the varying
temperatures of normal living, his body has difficulty taking over the
job of thermal control again.

"Excessive respiratory ailments such as flu, colds and pneumonia,
prompted the use of our present system. Since it was deemed necessary
to keep the body thermal adjustment equipment functioning, each
passenger now receives a minute injection of a retardation drug that
has the desired effect. This drug creates a slight lag between the time
of heat sensation and the beginning of perspiration.

"The body is allowed to sense an accumulation of heat, which finally
triggers the sweat glands into producing a slight oversupply of skin
moisture. The moving, dry air then evaporates this perspiration which
continues to flow a brief period _after_ optimum sensation is reached.
Thus, the body begins to experience the first sensation of chill--even
though the temperature of the air remains at 98.6 degrees. At this
point, the reaction lag expires and the perspiration stops, the body is
warmed as if bathed in hotter air again.

"This gentle oscillation between sensations of warmth and coolness
has a very pleasant secondary effect, you will find. The varying
temperature of your skin is too slight to be dangerous, yet it breaks
the tactile monotony which nine months of unchanging climate would
bring."

Pauker's teeth chattered together as the chill swept over him. This is
all very goddamned neat when it works, he thought miserably, but how do
you turn off the sweat?

His body had long since passed the comfort point, yet the sweat
was still flooding from his pores, and the gentle zephyr from the
air-conditioning seemed more like an autumn gale with a tang of winter
in it. Chills ran his vertical length and radiated from his spine.
Worse yet, as the paralysis drug took effect, he was even robbed of
the pleasure of shivering. The chatter of his teeth stopped, but the
swirling dankness flowed through his body unchecked.

The girl's voice paused a moment. "We are now entering maximum
acceleration phase. It is suggested that you concentrate on sleep. We
will continue the discussion when we reach free-flight."

Pauker gratefully tried to sink into the promised, narcotic slumber
as his mattress became firmer and firmer under him, but it was long,
miserable, frozen minutes before the ship's motion came to his aid and
blacked him out.

Free-flight!

       *       *       *       *       *

He snapped to consciousness and instantly recoiled from the discomfort.
To his surprise it wasn't the cold, now, but a dry, throat-rasping,
all-pervading heat that almost suffocated him. Sometime during his
unconsciousness his body had overtaken the thermal adjustment lag and
turned off the perspiration. Now he felt the ravages of an uncontrolled
fever. His mind wandered and refused to admit him to the promised
dream-state again. He thought he heard a voice. Yes, there was a voice,
the voice of the woman again.

"We are in free-flight," she announced with cheerful redundancy. "Now
you will begin to enjoy the full benefits of the rhythmic thermal
changes, since you are all floating freely under the loose bindings of
your couches. As we were discussing, the drug which--"

Again the voice cut off, but this time a male voice clicked in on
the circuit. "Attention all male passengers. Now hear this, all male
passengers: Will the gentleman who has a red scar on his left cheek
please report to the purser immediately upon arrival at Marsfield?
When you checked your bag you forgot to pick up your baggage check.
Attention all--"

While the message was repeated, Pauker smiled grimly to himself with
the memory of the shock he had received when the baggage man had
appeared in the passageway. So this was the reason? Some blundering
fool had walked off without his baggage check, and the attendant had
rushed aboard in search of him.

He wondered how anyone could be so stupid. Of course, everyone didn't
place the same value on his luggage.

The heat continued to build up in his fevered body until suddenly the
dam broke, and sweat fairly gushed from him. The relief was tremendous
but only momentary.

The girl's voice came on again, apparently with the flick of a
recorder, play-back switch, "--gives such fine regulation of the body's
thermal lag is a relatively new development in space-travel. Before its
advent, passengers invariably arrived at their destination with high
irritability from the thermal monotony.

"So the delightful comfort you now enjoy is just one more modern
service rendered by your host, the progressive Delta Spaceways
Corporation, Interplanetary.

"This being the last shot you received--in booth number seven--we
will now move on to a description and explanation of the free-flight
sensations you are now experience--"

_Booth number seven!_

The significance finally soaked into Pauker's mind. Booth number seven
was where he had fled for concealment and received a double dose of
drug injection! It was no wonder he was suffering the excessive lag in
thermal adjustment!

Already, the comforting coolness of the moving air on his sweat soaked
body was becoming too sharp. The chill rippled up from his groin,
raised the hackles of his neck-hair and diffused into his limbs like a
gelid syrup. A trickle of mucous dropped from his nasal passages and
stung his throat. He tried to roll his head, to hawk. It was hopeless.
The lassitude that held his limbs prevented the smallest motion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only his breathing seemed within his control, and a minute later he
was fervently grateful. A bubble gathered deep in his trachea, and he
coughed. The irritation increased, and he coughed again, a dry, hacking
cough.

What kind of torment had he let himself in for, he wondered? Was he
forced to lie here shivering or roasting for nine months?

Another spasm of dry coughing shook him, and when it was over the first
hunger pang stabbed his stomach.

Hunger? They had said the intravenous feeding would prevent any
symptoms of hunger.

_Yes, Pauker_, he reasoned, _but the feeding was based on your
metabolism tests and the assumption that your temperature was swinging
between narrow limits. And it didn't account for the energy you are
using coughing!_

The chill grew deeper, sharper, and then he thought of the sleep
narcotic. He concentrated on sleep, and finally as the cold increased
he managed to slip into a shallow stupor. It was of mere seconds'
duration, however. His sweat stopped, his skin dried and the heavy,
wonderful warmth bathed him again. It was too delicious to waste on
sleep.

The warmth soaked into his bones slowly, deliciously, but now the
interval between his spasms of coughing grew shorter. The period of
comfort was brief, for the coughing ran up his temperature, and now
the hunger in his belly was beginning to become a source of major
discomfort.

Then came the thirst. The excessive loss of body fluids slowly
desiccated his tissues, and the thirst grew. And the power to perspire
was lost to him, and the salt of his past heavy sweats caked in his
pores and itched.

The incipient pneumonia was held in check by his extreme fever, but the
hacking, dry cough continued, keeping him awake and painfully aware of
the pleurisy pains.

The hunger, the thirst, the itch, the cough, the pain, the fever--the
grating struggle for every breath through his tortured, parched throat.

Pauker was not religious, but he prayed to God for life, then he prayed
to the devil for death, and as the kaleidoscope of pain neared the
limits of his conscious endurance, he cursed the drugs that kept the
spark of life alive inside his screaming body; he bent all his powers
of concentration on a futile attempt to wrench his arm free of the
miserly, intravenous needle; he tried holding his breath, swallowing
his tongue, willing himself to oblivion. To no avail.

His last fully rational observation was to glare at the miniature
chronometer, mounted above his face. It registered the elapsed time in
days, hours and minutes.

He stared at it with sunken, inflamed eyes. It was, of course, out
of order. For it registered only an absurd ten days, six hours and
fourteen minutes since blast-off--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Astonishing!" the Marsfield Surgeon-General exclaimed. "Simply
astonishing the survival power you people have given your passengers
with this new drug combination. See here," he prodded Pauker's
emaciated ribs. "He still reacts to stimulus. Good as dead, yet I doubt
that he fully lost consciousness the whole trip!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS FROM
MARS! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
