The Project Gutenberg eBook of And All The Girls Were Nude, by
Richard Magruder

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: And All The Girls Were Nude

Author: Richard Magruder

Release Date: October 1, 2021 [eBook #66432]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AND ALL THE GIRLS WERE
NUDE ***





              Nathanial Evergood was an eccentric old man
           with a photographic passion for pretty girls. So
            he invented a camera lens for special effects--

                      And All The Girls Were Nude

                          By Richard Magruder

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             December 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Appearances oftentimes can be deceiving, and things most certainly
_aren't_ always as they seem. Take the case of Nathanial Evergood, for
instance.

The nature of this old man was such that nobody ever called him Nat,
not even his closest working companions in the company's bookkeeping
department. As long as any of them had ever known Nathanial Evergood
there had never been the slightest indication of any desire of his for
intimacy or even friendship.

Not once had he shared a drink or lunch or relaxed conversation with
anyone, so far as his associates knew. To say Nathanial was reserved is
putting it mildly.

It would be more accurate to describe this little old man as
dull--completely and absolutely dull. In his appearance, his dress, his
speech, in every way imaginable.

But, in addition to being quite dull--as everyone knew, Nathanial
Evergood was also a thoroughly evil and obscene old man, as no one knew.

Likely, the main reason no one had ever seen the inside of Nathanial's
rooms was the fear within him that his evilness and obscenity might
be discovered. For Nathanial Evergood might be called a connoisseur,
to slightly distort the meaning of that word. He could be called a
connoisseur of femininity--from afar, and in secret, of course. An
arbiter of the well-turned thigh, the rounded, dimpled bottom, the
tight waist, and the high, firm bosom.

Oh, Nathanial Evergood was a connoisseur, all right. At the
investigation he ventured a very rough but conservative guess that he
had collected at least fifty thousand pictures of girls, in whole or in
part, horizontal or vertical, semi-nude or nude, over the years.

Upon entering his living room (if that were possible), the first thing
a casual observer would have noted would be the point of saturation
reached by his walls in their photographic content. There were
photographs of blonds and brunettes and redheads. There were pictures
of thin girls, fat girls, girls with ample bosoms and girls lacking,
girls holding telephones, books and ice cream cones, girls sixteen,
girls twenty-five, and girls no longer girls.

There were shots in glorious color by the hundreds, originals and
prints alike. But, there wasn't among them one single view of the Grand
Canyon. Nor even a solitary Indian astride a tired horse, looking
pensively out over the prairie. There _was_ a red-skinned maiden, mind
you, but she wasn't sitting a horse, and she certainly wasn't staring
laconically out over any prairie, either. Rather, she appeared to
be testing with her toe the water temperature of a tree-shaded brook
somewhere, and she was clad in a lone, strategically-located feather.

On the tea table, in the bookshelves, in the magazine rack, and all
through his rooms, one might find other evidence of this evil and
obscene old man's preoccupation with womankind. But the kind of woman
he was preoccupied with often wasn't the kind that married dear old
dad. He subscribed to every girlie publication in the country and to
several in France.

       *       *       *       *       *

So you see, Nathanial Evergood was not only a connoisseur, he was also
an avid collector. There were books and there were magazines, and there
was even a deck of playing cards backed with the most astounding set of
pictures you ever saw. That anyone could sit down to a game of Old Maid
or Snap with _that_ deck of cards is inconceivable, to say the least.
But such an evil and obscene old man as Nathanial Evergood likely never
played games with his cards, anyway. He would much prefer to just sit
and look at them; the reverse side, of course.

He later said he probably spent almost half his really quite meager
earnings for up-to-date additions to his extensive collection. The
girlie magazines, playing cards and prints he received from various
mail order houses, sent, as the advertisements testified, "in a plain,
unmarked envelope".

But the other half of his collection--the photographs, mounted,
unmounted, matte and glossy enlargements and contact prints--Nathanial
Evergood came by in an entirely different--and somewhat novel--manner.
These resulted from his ability as a fairly advanced amateur
photographer. Over the years, Nathanial had acquired three fine
cameras, an excellent enlarger, two contact printers, electronic
flash units, interchangeable lenses, filters, sun shades and lens
caps, extension tubes and tripods. In short, Nathanial Evergood was
well-equipped to take photographs of just about everything.

He had the equipment, and he had the necessary technical knowledge
and facility. But, invariably, he passed up the usual pictorial,
architectural, human interest, interpretive and abstract photographs,
even when the opportunities for truly fine shots were there. Instead,
he took roll after roll, pack after pack and cartridge upon cartridge
of girls. _Nothing_ but girls. All _sorts_ of girls. _Just girls!_

At the investigation Nathanial suggested that the presence of a camera,
introduced on the scene in a gentlemanly and courteous manner, was
enough to cause almost frenzied unlocking and unzipping by even the
most demure and prudish female. "Ladies," Nathanial said wisely, "love
to have their bodies recorded for posterity."

Oh, he was certainly a very evil and highly obscene old man--was
Nathanial Evergood--if ever you saw one.

But the full import of what his evil old soul and obscene little mind
contained would probably escape the casual observer, unless he happened
onto a tiny cubbyhole at the back of the rooms occupied by Nathanial.
This was the sanctum sanctorum, so to speak, of his thin little heart,
for here Nathanial Evergood guarded jealously a secret utterly beyond
belief.

He fancied himself to be something of an inventor. And he was, too--of
a sort. His ardent and relentless pursuit of photographic subject
matter during the years had led him into situations demanding full
knowledge of his craft, from a technical rather than from an artistic
point of view. Thus, this inventive turn of mind was given an able
assist by his understanding of the theory, optics and chemistry of
photography.

And now, he was just putting the finishing touches to the most
important project in his entire life.

Basing his plan of action on the simple optical theory of astigmatism,
Nathanial designed a lens. Astigmatism, he had learned, results in the
human eye, as well as in manufactured lenses of certain formulae, in
the failure of horizontal and vertical target lines to reach a common
focus. So his lens was designed intentionally astigmatic, allowing
focus to be brought on one group of target lines or another, but never
on both simultaneously.

To the front of the lens mount he added a front-surfaced prism and
a filter, carefully ground and tinted internally the precise color
complement of human flesh. He reasoned, quite accurately as it turned
out, that the prism would gather all the colors of light together
and converge them at the focal plane of the lens as pure white, thus
eliminating all color. But, at the same instant, the complement
filter replaced last the flesh color of the object focused upon, and
subsequently recorded on film.

Then, in one fell swoop, the lens allowed Nathanial to focus carefully
on one group of target lines (in his case, the female form underneath
its covering), automatically throwing an opposing group of lines out
of focus (the covering over the female body, in his case). The prism
was busily gathering together all color and converting it into pure
white light, while lastly, the complementary filter replaced the color
of flesh to the image, and finally to the photograph. You see the
possibilities, of course. By replacing the normal lens of one fine
camera with his invention, Nathanial Evergood was now equipped to
photograph in rich, natural color the female form-divine, unfettered by
any or all clothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, this day in particular, Nathanial Evergood stationed himself,
poised like a pointer, at his window, camera in hand, invention in
place, waiting impatiently for the first likely subject to appear.
And, shameful as it must seem, this evil and obscene old man was quite
noticeably drooling, right from one side of his pinched little mouth.

He heard the saucy click of her heels on the pavement a full thirty
seconds before she swung gracefully into his myopic line of sight. She
was blondish. Not _too_ blond, understand, but just blond enough. And
she was a true-blue blond at heart, if you know what I mean.

Shutter: set, at 1/200 of a second; diaphragm: f/5.6; film;
Real-lifecolor; rangefinder: superimposed. Click. Click, click, click!
Four shots, four beautiful pictures, in color, too, before she was
gone on down the street.

With incredible speed this evil and obscene old man descended from his
window perch and scuttered back to his little cubby hole. He darkened
the room and unloaded the automatic sheet film holder. No attempt can
be made to describe the gnawing impatience that Nathanial Evergood felt
as he sloshed the sensitized emulsions through the series of solutions
for the precise time required for true color rendition, as, after
ninety long minutes, he washed the sheets, and finally held them up to
the light for a first wide-eyed look.

She was there, alright, his swaying blond. She was there. _All_ of her!

Well sir, after filling his eyes--and his evil little mind--with the
four lovely images of the girl, Nathanial Evergood rushed to the
downtown camera shop, and wrote out a large check for their entire
supply of Real-lifecolor film. Then, back on the street, madly
clicking, clicking, clicking. Every pretty girl that came along.
_Every_ single one!

Oh, he had a time for himself, did this evil, obscene old man.

The next day was Sunday, happily for his designing brain, and there was
no work. After a full night in his cubby hole developing sheet after
sheet of color film, Nathanial went to the beach and, as you must know
by now, set his camera shutter clicking like a miniature machine gun.

And, again, the results were spectacular, to put it mildly. The
collection grew and grew and grew, and Nathanial Evergood was never
wearier, or never happier. What an evil, obscene man he was!

Now, if Nathanial had stuck to his camera and to his wonderful
invention, this story might never have been written. But, evil and
obscene as he was, he soon began to dream of new worlds to conquer.

Simple as it had been to apply the principle of astigmatism to
photography--and with such marvelous results--why not apply this same
principle to his eyeglasses? This would eliminate the annoying delay of
taking pictures, then developing and viewing them. To say nothing of
the terrific expense involved.

Usually, when writers say, "No sooner said than done", it is often a
gross exaggeration. But Nathanial _was_ quick about it, nevertheless.

In short order, the problems of focus, image distortion and aberrations
were ironed out, and Nathanial ventured once again out into the street
to give his newest brain-child its dry-run, so to speak.

The glasses worked all right. They worked just fine. And Nathanial
Evergood, in a leering ecstasy, raced up and down the streets, peering
with his watery and overworked eyes this way and that, up and down, all
around and back again. For the next day or so Nathanial was busy as a
bee attending every beauty contest and fashion show in town, and even
found time for a quick run out to the girl's school.

       *       *       *       *       *

The third day following the initial tests of his new seeing-eye
glasses, Nathanial suddenly observed there were an uncommon lot of
nicely constructed young ladies right in his own department at the
office. An opportunist, if ever there was one, Nathanial thought
it just might be fun to give the remarkable spectacles a chance to
separate the women from the girls, and the girls from the children.

This he did and although his work suffered, he spent the better part
of the day classifying the office help in various categories, and
learning there were at least two ladies who fell in no classification
whatsoever. It was the nicest day he had spent at the office in quite
some time, he decided.

Not long after that the strain brought on by the frequent changes from
his normal reading glasses to the prism spectacles became so intense
that he decided there was really no good reason why he shouldn't
just wear them--the new ones, of course--all the time. The better to
preserve his vision, and the better to pursue his avocation.

So, he did.

And therein lay the downfall of Nathanial Evergood.

For, you see, the climax of our story comes a month later, on a sunny
July day, when Nathanial made his decision to take a short stroll among
the mid-day lady shoppers downtown.

Understand, with those glasses of his, Nathanial had become so
accustomed to seeing his fellow creatures _au natural_, as it were,
that it was on the verge of becoming almost commonplace. But, evil and
obscene as he was, it was still highly diverting yet.

At any rate, on this particular day, Nathanial had made his way no more
than a couple of hundred feet from his front door when a heavy hand was
clamped on his shoulder and a rough voice growled, "Where you think
_you're_ going, you scrawny old buzzard? You oughta know better."

Nathanial Evergood spun about, suddenly petrified. The uniform, of
course, was invisible, and the man was no raving beauty, he'd have
said. But there was no mistaking the ugly gun and the shiny badge and
the authoritative tone of voice.

"I _beg_ your pardon," Nathanial spluttered indignantly. "Just what is
the meaning of this ridiculous outrage?"

The beefy Irish cop was even more indignant, though. "Now, just look at
yourself. I've seen absent-minded old timers parading down the street
with no shoes on, or even no pants on. But just look at yourself; not a
_stitch_ on!"

Nathanial Evergood looked down at himself in sudden horrified
realization, and looked back up as quickly. "But ... but," he began,
"everybody else...." But then, of course, he had to stop.

Well, the upshot of it all was that the officer hauled him back into
his rooms to get some clothes on before carting him down to the station
house. As it was before they entered the apartment, Nathanial stood to
get ten days probation or a token fine for forgetting all his clothes,
Irish cops being ordinarily an understanding lot.

But, when confronted by the staggering array of unclad femininity, this
Irishman flushed a deep red, spewed an amazed Irish blasphemy, and then
roared like a lion.

And don't think the officer didn't check the evidence carefully--with
the proper degree of loathing, of course--before shoving Nathanial
unceremoniously down the street to call the paddy wagon. Of a
certainty, things went much worse for the evil, obscene Nathanial
Evergood than they might have, had not this righteously outraged
policeman done his duty as he saw it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matter of fact, they threw the book at the old boy. But not until a
thorough investigation was made, and not until several hundred outraged
members of every morals, anti-delinquency and anti-vice committee in
town had carefully checked and gasped over all the collected evidence.
Never in the history of the city had there been such a hue and a cry
aroused for the punishment of an offender.

So, Nathanial Evergood--evil and obscene as ever--got five years for
possession of pornography, indecent exposure and other charges. In the
words of the presiding jurist at the climax of the spectacular trial,
"Such a sentence is far too lenient a punishment for a crime of such
enormity."

And, to this very day, there rests in the files of the local
constabulary, the voluminous collection of Nathanial Evergood,
occupying fourteen huge, well-worn cabinets, and always on display
for the indignant and affronted eyes of any anti-sin committeeman who
wishes to examine it.

Also taken as evidence was Nathanial's wonderful prismatic lens and his
marvelous glasses. Anytime you're by the station house, drop into the
chief's office and, there in the open cabinet opposite his desk, you
can see the venal objects. Now though, the lenses are pretty scratched
and worn, but they're still the same two inventions of that ingenious,
but evil and obscene old man, Nathanial Evergood, No. 5-049,870.

And not that it makes much difference since the case is long past and
closed, but it might be interesting to point out that the chief is
often seen at beauty contests and fashion shows, wearing thick-lensed
glasses, which, he explains, the optometrist prescribed for his failing
sight. And I don't know if it's true or not, but they say the chief is
also the biggest customer the local camera shops have for a certain
product called Real-lifecolor film.

Not that it makes much difference now. Nathanial Evergood is serving
his sentence out, evil and obscene as ever, and the case is long past
and closed.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AND ALL THE GIRLS WERE
NUDE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
