The Project Gutenberg eBook of Stop, You're Killing Me!, by Darius
John Granger

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Stop, You're Killing Me!

Author: Darius John Granger

Release Date: November 13, 2021 [eBook #66723]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STOP, YOU'RE KILLING
ME! ***





                       Stop, You're Killing Me!

                        By Darius John Granger

               As a private eye I get a lot of screwball
            cases, but nothing to match my own; my wife and
            kid trying to kill me--and neither aware of it!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1956
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


It's funny how a silly little habit can save your life.

I got into the car that morning and was thinking of nothing in
particular--except maybe the cases I hoped to be getting downtown in my
one man private dick office. We live at the top of the city's highest
hill, my wife and our son Sam, who's seventeen, and myself. At least
it's the highest hill in the residential district and the highest one
I know of. So out of habit I patted the brakes to test them as the car
began to roll down the slight incline of the driveway.

The brakes didn't hold.

Had I started down Jackson Hill, down the long half mile slope which
levels off at the busy intersection of MacArthur and Houston Avenues,
I'd have streaked through the intersection out of control. I don't know
what the odds for survival are in such a circumstance, but I'd hate to
have to test them.

As it was, I shook my head in surprise and pulled the handbrake,
bringing the Olds to a stop at the foot of the driveway. I climbed out
and bent down to take a look at the right front wheel. In a few seconds
I knew what the trouble was. Brake fluid. There wasn't any. But that
didn't make sense because I'd had the car--brakes included--overhauled
only last week.

Which meant someone had drained the brake fluid from the Olds.

I checked the other front wheel and it was the same. No brake fluid.
I sat there in the car for a few minutes smoking a cigarette before I
went into the house to call the local service station and have them tow
the Olds in.

It was the third time in less than a month that someone had tried to
kill me.

That happens, of course, to private detectives. It isn't only in the
movies and the two-bit mystery thrillers that it happens. It happens in
real life, too. I know because I've been in the business twenty years.
Go downtown some time and look me up; Frank Foley's the name and you'll
find me in the Ditmas Building on Pearl Street. Sure it happens to
private eyes in real life. They're on a hot case and someone wants them
off and because it's known bribes won't do any good, violence, mayhem
and murder are tried.

But that didn't fit the situation in this case. There had been three
tries on my life. The jets of our gas stove turned on while I was
napping over a cup of coffee late of a cold night in the kitchen, with
door and windows closed. The pulley of our extension ladder failing
to hold while I was up painting the eaves of the house. And now the
drained brake fluid.

I was on no important case. All of my work at the moment was routine.
They say I am getting old, but don't you believe it. I've got some good
cases ahead of me yet. They say I was able to get away with my shady
tricks when I was younger but that I'm slipping and can't get away
with them now. Don't you believe it. In my business you've always got
to get away with them. And when Frank Foley is all washed up, Frank
Foley will be the first one to know it.

The situation in this case was worse. The situation in this case was
strictly a family affair. All the attempts at my life had been made at
home, either by my wife Sue or our boy Sam. Sounds nuts, because we're
a pretty happy family usually. But there it was. Either Sue or Sam
could have snafu'd the pulley on the extension ladder and either one of
them could have turned on the gas jets after I had dozed. As for the
drained brake fluid, Sue didn't know a spark plug from the carburetor
air intake, but Sam was a hot rod with his own beat-up jalopy and knew
as much about cars as anyone since old Henry Ford himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went inside and sat down at the kitchen table. Sam was still
lingering over his coffee before heading over to the high school. Sue
was doing the dishes and humming. She turned around and said:

"S'matter dear, something wrong with the car?"

"You better ask Sammy," I suggested.

"Sammy? But why?"

"I don't get it, pop," Sammy said still drinking his coffee.

The other two times I had said nothing. Accidents. You don't accuse
your own wife and son of trying to kill you unless you're sure. But the
drained brake fluid was no accident. I swept Sammy's coffee cup off
the table with my right hand and grabbed the front of his shirt. Sue
screamed with surprise as I dragged Sammy to his feet.

"You drained out the brake fluid," I said.

"I don't know what you're talking about, pop. What's the matter with
you? You'll rip the shirt!"

"Lay off of him for crying out loud, Frank," Sue cried out.

"Lay off of him," I said, repeating her words and imitating her tone.
This always exasperated Sue. She put down her dish rag and came over to
me and hollered:

"Well, you haven't said what's the matter."

"I said he drained the brake fluid out of the car. I could have killed
myself."

"That's ridiculous, Frank, and you know it. Why would Sam do a thing
like that?"

"How should I know why he'd do a thing like that?"

"Why don't you let go of him?"

I did so and Sammy slumped down into his chair. "How should I know," I
went on, "why either one of you would bolix up the extension ladder or
turn on the gas jets right here in the kitchen while I was dozing?"

"What?" Sue gasped. "What did you say?"

"You heard right, mom," Sammy said, staring at me as if I'd just
escaped from the twentieth century equivalent of bedlam.

"Frank, you've been working too hard," Sue said. "Why don't you take a
vacation? We could go off to--"

"Oh, to hell with a vacation," I said, but I was simmering down. They
both looked so completely innocent, it kind of stopped me. Add to that
fact that my family had no reason in the world for trying to kill me,
and I was almost inclined to believe them.

Except that you couldn't change the facts. You couldn't change what had
happened.

I turned around without saying anything and headed for the door. "Why
don't you drop in on Doc Mundin on the way to work?" Sue suggested.

I slammed the door and went out to the wife's car and got in and drove
downtown. All the way down, you could have threaded a needle with the
line my lips made.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was one customer in my waiting room when I reached the office. I
offered him a curt nod and went by the inner door. "Be right with you,"
I mumbled. He didn't respond. He was a short, chunky man with hips as
wide as his shoulders and a flabby, loose-jowled face but a chest like
a barrel. I gave him a double take when he failed to respond. I said,
"Well, do you want to see a private detective or don't you?"

"I want to see you," he said.

Somehow, I didn't like the way he said it, but let it ride. "Be right
with you," I told him as I unlocked the inner door and moved through
the sanctum sanctorum, such as it is. I smoked a cigarette halfway down
before I pressed the buzzer to admit him.

He came in with the bouncy stride to which chunky fat men are prone. He
looked straight at me and smiled as if he had known me for years. "I'm
glad to see you're still alive, Mr. Foley," he said.

I stood up. "Would you say that again please?" I asked him.

"I'm glad to see you're still alive."

"Just what the hell is that supposed to mean?"

"Well, let me see. By this time your wife and son would have tried
three times to kill you. That being the--"

I was around the desk before he could finish. I grabbed him much
harder than I had grabbed Sammy. Something--probably the lining of his
jacket--ripped. "You'd better explain that," I suggested.

"There's hardly anything to explain. Your wife tried to kill you by
almost cutting through the pulley rope of your extension ladder, but
you got off with a strained ankle. She tried to kill again by leaving
the gas jets on one night in the kitchen. But you awoke in time. Your
son tried to kill you this morning by draining the brake fluid from
your car. There now. Does that bring us up to date?"

I was so shocked I let go of him. I sat down and lit another cigarette
with what remained of the first. I watched him brush himself off and
settle himself in the client chair.

"I can't blame you for behaving like that," he said.

"What the devil have you been doing, living in our attic and spying on
me?"

"Dear me, no. But you see, I know. I know all about you, Mr. Foley. I
have to know."

"You have to?"

"Now that you have avoided death the first three times, I'm going to
hire you."

"To hire me? What for?"

I must have sounded so amazed that my visitor said: "You do hire
yourself out as a private detective? Don't you? That is your function,
isn't it?"

"Yeah, but--"

"But how did I know? That's a long story. Too long and too involved for
you and probably you wouldn't believe it anyhow. Look, Mr. Foley. I
would like to hire you. I am an inventor. Your job will be to protect
me and my invention against harm--for as long as necessary. Perhaps the
rest of my life."

"The rest of your life!"

"Oh, that isn't very long. You see, I die of a heart attack in 1959."

"I'm sorry to hear that," I said. "You mean, your doctor told you you
only have three more years to live?"

"My doctor?" the chunky fat man said. "Dear me, no. My great great
great great grandchild told me. And he, of course, knows."

"Your great great great great grandchild," I said.

"Yes, of course. Naturally the dear boy--if you can call a man your own
age a boy--is very upset. He's marooned here, you see."

"This--uh--great great great great grandson is your own age, you say?"

"Perhaps a little older. I never asked him."

"But he won't be born for a hundred years!" I gasped. There was a
silence. Then I smiled at my visitor. I had to smile. He was pulling my
leg. He did it the best, the soberest way possible--but he was pulling
my leg. There would be a place for him on TV, I thought, and said so.

"But I'm not joking," he insisted. "Everything I told you is true, Mr.
Foley. Here is what I want you to do. For as long as necessary, perhaps
until my death in 1959, I want you to protect me and my invention. I'll
pay you a hundred dollars a week for as long as I live, plus expenses."

       *       *       *       *       *

A hundred and expenses was more than I averaged, but I didn't say that.
I said, "What do I have to protect you against?"

"Why, didn't I say? My great great--"

"Great great," I said for him, "grandson. Look, jack. You're talking
in riddles. Why don't you spit straight out whatever you want to say?
Your great great great great grandson can't possibly want to harm you
because, damn it, he hasn't been born yet. Which leaves us where?"

"Oh, but you're wrong. He doesn't want to harm me specifically.
He merely wants to stop me from completing my invention. When he
discovered I was going to hire you to protect me he decided to kill you
as a warning to me. He tried three times and missed three times so I
know you're pretty resourceful, Mr. Foley. I'd feel that my invention
and I are safe in your hands."

"First you say my family's trying to kill me, then you say your four
times grandson. Well, which is it?"

"Both. That is, my relative employs mental suggestion on your
relatives, using them as agents. They have no reason to kill you, do
they?"

"No," I admitted.

"There. Then obviously it must be my--umm, four times grandson, as you
say. Will you take the job?"

"I don't know yet," I said. "I'll admit it, jack. I don't know if
you're crazy or I'm crazy."

"Why does either one of us have to be crazy? Can't you simply protect
me and my invention and--"

"What kind of invention is it?" I asked.

"I thought you would get around to that."

"Well, what is it?"

"I had wanted to wait until it was finished so I could show you. One
doesn't simply talk about an invention like mine and expect to be
believed."

When I'm puzzled I become arrogant. I guess you call it bluster and
often it can see you through pretty rough spots. So despite the offer
of a hundred dollars a week plus expenses I said, "Either you tell me
all about it, or we forget you ever came here. Understand?"

"I suppose so," he admitted. "Very well, then--"

"Just a minute. You haven't even told me your name."

"It's Haney. Angus W. Haney, Mr. Foley."

"Now what about the invention?"

"It's almost finished," Angus W. Haney said. "At the moment I can't
prove to you that it works. Unless you believe my great great great
great grandson really is what I say he is."

"Whoever heard of a--"

"That is crucial, Mr. Foley. Because if you believe he is what I say he
is, then you know my invention will be a success. You see, what I am in
the process of inventing is a time machine."

       *       *       *       *       *

That was enough for one day and I guess Angus W. Haney knew it was
enough. He gave me his card and told me to call him and I said that
I would. After he had left, I got out the office bottle--which that
winter was bourbon--and poured myself a good hard slug which went down
smoothly. It's a hoax, I kept telling myself. It has to be a hoax.

But was it? I guess I wasn't entirely convinced, because Angus Haney
had said that his four times grandson was using my Sue and Sammy--via
mental suggestion--to kill me. And that being the case, I decided
against going home that night. What the hell, a guy couldn't take
chances, not in my business. You learned to be careful or else you left
the business in a hurry or they carried you out. So, I'd wait and see.

I called up home and made some kind of excuse, then took a room
downtown in the Hazel Arms Hotel. I checked in, showered, and went
outside for a good meal. When I returned to the Hazel Arms it was early
so I killed some time at the bar, then went out and took in a movie.

At ten o'clock that evening I went upstairs to turn in. Kind of an
early hour for a private eye, I know, but I was bushed and I guess I'm
not as young as I used to be. I shut the door behind me and was about
to turn on the light when a voice said:

"After you turn it on just walk to the bed and sit down, please. I'm
holding a gun on you."

I touched the light switch and the room was bathed in light and I saw
him. He was a middle aged fellow, but trim and well-preserved with dark
piercing eyes and hair graying at the temples. He said, "I suppose you
know who I am."

I sat down on the bed, shaking my head. He was seated across the room
from me in a wing chair, holding a .38 Banker's Special very steadily
in his right hand, the muzzle pointing at me.

"No," I said. "Who are you?"

"I am Angus Haney's great great great great grandson."

By then I didn't even blink. I merely said, "Go on, I'm listening."

"I tried to have you killed as a warning to my relation, Mr. Foley. You
see, I don't want to kill him. I can't predict what might happen if I
kill him. It's never been done before, killing an ancestor. I might
disrupt the whole family line. For example, I might never be born. We
couldn't possibly have that, could we?"

"Not if you say we couldn't. What do you want, jack? To kill me?"

"If I had wanted that I could merely pull the trigger, couldn't I?"

"Yeah."

"I'm afraid trying to kill you was a mistake. Angus is determined to go
on with his invention anyway. But if I can convince you not to take his
proposition, perhaps I'll be able to destroy his time machine before he
has time to hire another guard."

"But why do you want to destroy it?"

"Because I'm trapped here in your primitive age. Because I'll never get
back to my own time, that's why."

"I don't get you."

"Look. My ancestor Angus Haney invents a time machine. It can travel
forward in time, but not back. In my own day I invent a machine based
to a large extent on Angus' earlier machine. It can travel back in
time, but not forward. I come here, visiting your mid-twentieth
century, thinking I can return to my own day in Angus' machine."

"Then why don't you want it built?"

"Because Angus explained to me that I was wrong. The machines are
slightly different. I can travel on my own, but not his. He can travel
on his own, but not mine. Result, I'm trapped here. Unless--"

"Unless what?"

"Unless I can prevent Angus from completing his machine. If it's
destroyed, my own machine would have been impossible because, as I have
said, most of my work is based on Angus'. You'll help me?"

"No," I said. "Why should I?"

"Because I cannot stand living in your barbarous age. Because I want to
return home to the world I understand."

"Hell," I said, "Angus is as good as my client right now."

"I will give you," the well-preserved middle aged man said, "ten
thousand dollars to help me destroy Angus Haney's time machine."

"And win or lose you won't have my family try to kill me any more?"

"Win or lose," he said.

Great-great--I got to call him that because I never learned his
name--waited for my answer while I did some of the fast thinking a
private dick has to do every working day of his life. When opportunity
knocks, a private dick can't pass it up. He won't keep his shingle up
long if he does because the work isn't exactly steady. This, obviously,
was opportunity. Ten thousand bucks worth. And ten G's in one lump sum
looked a lot better than Angus Haney's indefinite hundred a week.

Did that mean I was turning on Angus Haney? Well, it's a cinch I
wouldn't have been booted out of the fraternity of private eyes for it
because despite what you read to the contrary in the two-bit shamus
books--of noble impulses and motives pure as chivalry--a private eye is
for number one and that's the end of it.

"Mister," I said, "you have got yourself a deal. When do I start?"

"You know where Angus Haney lives?"

"He gave me his card."

"Tomorrow. Tomorrow morning. He's working late tonight so he'll sleep
late tomorrow. He's putting the finishing touches tonight on the first
time machine ever built. In the morning, we destroy it. All right?"

"For ten thousand bucks," I said, "I'd destroy the Taj Mahal."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a cold clear morning. I didn't call home because I couldn't face
the wife and kid, not for a while. I had accused them of trying to kill
me and it was true enough but they had no recollection of it. I still
had the wife's car with me, but she could pick up mine at the service
station on her own way to work.

I was too excited to eat breakfast. It isn't every morning you start
out to earn ten thousand dollars.

I drove across town to the address on Angus Haney's card. Great-great
was already waiting for me, and pacing the sidewalk impatiently. The
frown lifted when he saw me and you could actually see him relax down
to the tips of his toes.

"I can take care of the machine," he said. "You watch for Angus. If
Angus tries to stop me, you take care of Angus. All right?"

I nodded and we went around the side of the house, where Angus Haney
had planted rhododendron and azaleas. Me, I don't care much for
plants--I only know the names because my wife makes such a fuss about
them.

"In the cellar," Great-great whispered. "I have a key."

"How did you get a key?"

"In my own time this house is preserved as a museum. I simply made a
key from the restored model."

In silence we approached the cellar door. A look at my wristwatch told
me it was seven-thirty. If Angus Haney had worked late last night he
would probably still be asleep. The job would be a lead-pipe cinch.

I watched my companion slip a key into the lock. In a moment, the door
stood ajar and I was peering down a steep flight of bare wood steps.
Nodding at each other, we began to go down.

We stopped short at the foot of the staircase. There was someone down
there.

"I thought you said he'd be sleeping," I protested, barely forming the
words with my lips.

"I'm sure he's asleep--but I didn't know he'd sleep down in the cellar.
Apparently he didn't want to leave the machine even for a minute."

Faint light entered the cellar through the small high windows. At first
I saw nothing but the usual clutter of basement junk, but then in the
far corner beyond the water tank I saw something which didn't belong.
Make that two things. First, there was a man asleep on a cot. Second,
there was this machine.

For all I know of gadgets, it could have been a super-powered ham radio
set. But a ham doesn't come complete with a glass-enclosed compartment
big enough for a man.

We stalked across the floor, Great-great pausing to pick something up.
It was a length of steel pipe and with it he wouldn't have much trouble
demolishing Angus Haney's untried time machine.

This was it. This was my big day. Ten thousand bucks for almost
nothing. I looked at the plump man sleeping on the cot in front of his
invention. I felt no remorse. His adversary had made a better offer, so
what the hell could he expect?

All at once, things happened fast. Great-great stumbled over something
and went reeling across the room. He was so surprised that he shouted,
"But it doesn't belong there! I couldn't have tripped over it! It isn't
in the restoration, I tell you."

I didn't have time to point out that the restoration might not be quite
accurate. Because the commotion woke up Angus Haney.

He came springing off the cot--fully awake and alarmed in the
split-second it took to open his eyes.

"You'll have to kill me first!" he cried, moving in front of the
machine and preparing to defend it like a mother lion defends her cubs.

My companion ignored him, trying to work around behind him toward the
time machine. I advanced straight for Angus Haney.

"Be sensible, jack," I said, "and you won't get hurt. I'm bigger than
you are and I know how to fight. I don't want to hurt you, but--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned away from me, though, and lunged at Great-great. I dove at
him in a street clothes version of the flying tackle and we went
down together. Angus Haney was stronger than I had expected. Or maybe
it wasn't that. Maybe he was fighting with desperation. Because the
machine meant everything to him.

Well, the ten grand wasn't exactly chicken feed to me, either. If Angus
was going to fight back, I had to play rough. I clubbed him across
the mouth with my right fist and his lips became a bloody smear, but
he kept kicking and twisting and writhing to get at his relative, who
stood poised now over the time machine with the length of steel pipe.

"Don't!" Angus Haney screamed, and rolled clear of me. He was on his
feet in an instant and wrestling to get the pipe from my companion.

"If I destroy it, you fool," the man who hadn't been born yet said, "I
won't build my own version of it and won't be trapped back here in your
twentieth century. You can't stop me."

But Angus, who outweighed his antagonist, had other ideas. In the brief
time it took me to climb to my feet and reach them, the metal pipe went
clattering away across the floor and Angus was wrestling his relative
away from the time machine. I grabbed Angus' shoulder and swung him
around and hit him. He dropped like a stone and, with a whoop of
triumph, my companion scrambled after the heavy metal pipe.

Angus was down but not out. I'll have to say this for him; he had guts.
He was on his feet again before Great-great could reach the machine.

I'll never forget that scene. For a moment time seemed to be suspended.
Great-great stood poised with the metal pipe at the top of its arc,
ready to bring it down with crushing force on the delicate control
bank of the machine. Angus seemed to stop in mid-air as he leaped for
the pipe. Immediately behind him was the glass-enclosed booth of the
machine. Or--and this is important--it was glass-enclosed on three
sides. The fourth side was nothing but air.

I caught Angus around the waist and pulled him back. We stumbled away
from the machine and then back toward it. Suddenly Angus went limp. It
was the oldest trick in the book, but I fell for it. I relaxed my hold
on him and, as soon as I did, he became a fury. Something struck the
side of my head and the next thing I knew I was staggering toward the
time machine.

Just as Great-great brought the heavy metal pipe down.

I staggered inside the glass-enclosed booth.

There was a loud crashing sound.

And then--unexpectedly--a faint hum--a sudden blurry curtain before my
eyes--a rolling, seething, billowing mist of white--and a moment of
exquisite pain....

And Angus Haney's voice from a million miles away: "You're destroying
it...."

Then blackness like the gulf between the stars.

Or between the centuries.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well that's the story. I'm telling you everything so you'll understand.
I am not--repeat, not--crazy. I'm as sane as you are. Of course my
emotional responses to your mental tests are different: I'm from the
twentieth century.

I know I can't get back. I know a little more ought to be said about my
story. Angus failed to stop Great-great, who completely demolished his
machine.

How do I know?

Because you never even heard of a successful experiment in time travel
here in the twenty-first century. Simple, isn't it.

I wish I knew Great-great's name. If I knew his name and could find
him, he'd confirm my story. I know what you're thinking. Believe me, I
am not a paranoid. I....

What's that? His name's Haney, just like Angus Haney? That figures,
I guess. George Haney. Well, truck him in for crying out loud. He'll
confirm everything I say--

Here he is now. "Well, Jack am I glad to see you! They think I'm crazy.
They're trying to tell me there's no such thing as time travel, but I
ought to know. I come from the past. And you ought to know, because you
went back there to destroy Angus Haney's prototype of a time machine so
you wouldn't build one yourself, based on it, and be trapped back in my
century. Right? Incidentally, Jack, you can forget all about the ten
grand, just as long as you get me out of here and convince them I'm not
crazy."

He stares at me. He's Great-great, all right. He frowns and says, "I
could not possibly be interested. I never saw you before in my life.
And obviously, there is no such thing as time travel." He shakes his
head sadly and starts to leave.

"Wait!" I cry. "You don't understand. I understand now. Of course you
wouldn't know. You wouldn't remember. Because if you destroyed Angus
Haney's time machine there wouldn't be any such thing as time travel
and you wouldn't have built your own machine. So you forgot. The
episode sort of never existed for you."

"I'm terribly sorry I can't help you, fellow." A genuine look of
sympathy in his eyes.

"There's no such thing as time travel. For everybody but me. I'm the
one guy who proved time travel was possible--before the first and only
time machine was destroyed."

He leaves. The head medics confer. I know what they're saying. I'm
nuts. Time travel is impossible so I must be nuts.

But we know better, don't we?

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STOP, YOU'RE KILLING ME! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
