The Project Gutenberg eBook of Special Delivery, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Special Delivery

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: May 6, 2022 [eBook #68007]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPECIAL DELIVERY ***





                           Special Delivery

                          By GEORGE O. SMITH

                         Illustrated by Kramer

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Astounding Science-Fiction, March 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Don Channing grinned at his wife knowingly. Arden caught his glance and
then laughed. Walt Franks leaned back and looked highly superior. "Go
ahead and laugh, darn you. I tell you it can be done."

"Walt, ever since you tried that stunt of aerating soap with hydrogen
to make a floating soap for shower baths, I've been wondering about
your kind of genius."

"Oh no," objected Arden.

"Well, he wondered about it after nearly breaking his neck one
morning."

"That I did," grinned Walt. "It's still a good idea."

"But the idea of transmitting matter is fantastic."

"Agreed," admitted Walt. "But so is the idea of transmitting power."

"It would come in handy if possible," remarked Don. "At slightly under
2-G, it takes only four hours to make Luna from Terra. On the other
hand, shipping stuff from Melbourne, Australia, to New York City, or
to the Mojave Spaceport takes considerably longer. With spacecraft as
super stratosphere carriers it isn't too good, because you've got to
run in a circle. In space you run at constant acceleration to mid-point
and then decelerate the rest of the way. Fine for mile-eating, but not
too hot for cutting circles."

"Well, having established the need of a matter transmitter, now what?"

"Go on, Walt. You're telling us."

"Well," said Walt, penciling some notes on the tablecloth, "it's like
this. The Carroll-Baler power-transmission tube will carry energy.
According to their initial experiments, they had some trouble."

"They had one large amount, if I recall."

"Specifically, I recall the incident of the hammer. Remember?"

"Barney Carroll got mad and swung a hammer at the tube, didn't he?"

"It was one of them, I don't recall which."

"No matter of importance," said Don. "I think I know what you mean.
He hit the intake end--or tried to. The hammer was cut neatly and
precisely off, and the energy of the blow was transmitted, somehow, to
the wall."

"Through the wall," corrected Walt. "It cracked the plaster, but it
went through so fast that it merely cracked it. The main blow succeeded
in breaking the marble facade of the city hall."

"Um. Now bring us up to date. What have you in mind?"

"A tube which scans matter atom by atom, line by line, and plane by
plane. The matter is removed, atom by atom, and transmitted to a sort
of matter bank in the instrument."

"A what?"

"Matter bank," said Walt. "We can't transmit the stuff itself. That's
out. We can't dissipate the atomic energy or whatever effect we might
get. We can establish a balance locally by using the energy release to
drive the restorer. According to some initial experiments, it can be
done. We take something fairly complex and break it down. We use the
energy of destruction to re-create the matter in a bank, or solid block
of local stuff. Let it be a mass of stuff if it wants to, at any rate,
the signal impulses from the breakdown will be transmitted, scanned, if
you will, and transmitted to a receiver which reverses the process. It
scans, and the matter bank is broken down and the object is rebuilt.

"I hope we can get free and unrestricted transmutation," offered Don.
"You can't send a steel spring out and get one back made of copper."

"I get your point."

"The space lines will hate you," said Arden.

"Too bad. I wonder if it'll carry people."

"Darling," drawled Arden, "don't you think you'd better catch your
rabbit first?"

"Not too bad a thought," agreed Don. "Walt, have you got any rabbit
traps out?"

"A couple. I've been tinkering a bit. I know we can disintegrate matter
through a power tube of slight modification, and reintegrate it with
another. At the present state of the art, it is a mess."

"A nice mess," laughed Don. "Go ahead, though. We'll pitch in when the
going gets hard."

"That's where I stand now. The going is tough."

"What's the trouble?"

"Getting a perfect focus. I want it good enough so that we can scan a
polished sheet of steel--and it'll come out as slick as the original."

"Naturally. We'd better get Wes Farrell on the job."

"I wonder what by-product we'll get this time."

"Look, Walt. Quit hoping. If you get this thing running right, it'll
put your name in history."

"After all," grinned Walt, "I've got to do something good enough to
make up for that Channing Layer."

"Kingman is still fuming over the Channing Layer. Sometimes I feel
sorry that I did it to him like that."

"Wasn't your fault, Don. You didn't hand him the thing knowing that the
Channing Layer would inhibit the transmission of energy. It happened.
We get power out of Sol--why shouldn't they? They would, except for the
Channing Layer."

"Wonder what your idea will do."

"About the Channing Layer? Maybe your space-line competition is not as
good as it sounds."

"Well, they use the power-transmission tubes all over the face of the
Solar System. I can't see any reason why they couldn't ship stuff from
Sidney to Mojave and then space it out from there."

"What an itinerary! By Franks' matter transmitter to Mojave.
Spacecraft to Luna. More matter transmission from Luna to Phobos.
Then transshipped down to Lincoln Head, and by matter transmitter to
Canalopsis. _Whoosh!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Do we have time to go into the old yarn about the guy who listened in
and got replicas?" asked Arden.

"That's a woman's mind for you," grinned Channing. "Always making
things complicated. Arden, my lovely but devious-minded woman, let's
wait until we have the spry beastie by the ears before we start to make
rabbit pie."

"It's not as simple as it sounds," warned Walt. "But it's there to
worry about."

"But later. I doubt that we can reason that angle out."

"I can," said Arden. "Can we tap the power beams?"

"Wonderful is the mind of woman!" praised Don. "Positively wonderful!
Arden, you have earned your next fur coat. Here I've been thinking of
radio transmission all the time. No, Arden, when you're set up for
sheer energy transmission, it's strictly no dice. The crimped-up jobs
we use for communications can be tapped--but not the power-transmission
beams. If you can keep the gadget working on that line, Walt, we're in
and solid."

"I predict there'll be a battle. Are we shipping energy or
communications?"

"Let Kingman try and find a precedent for that. Brother Blackstone
himself would be stumped to make a ruling. We'll have to go to work
with the evidence as soon as we get a glimmer of the possibilities. But
I think we have a good chance. We can diddle up the focus, I'm certain."

Arden glowered. "Go ahead--have your fun. I see another couple of weeks
of being a gadgeteer's widow." She looked at Walt Franks. "I could
stand it if the big lug only didn't call every tool, every part, and
every effect either _she_ or _baby_!"

Walt grinned. "I'd try to keep you from being lonely, but I'm in this
too, and besides, you're my friend's best wife."

"Shall we drag that around a bit? I think we could kill a couple of
hours with it sometime."

"Let it lie there and rot," snorted Channing cheerfully. "We'll pick it
up later. Come on, Walt. We've got work to do."

Mark Kingman glowered at the 'gram and swore under his breath. He
wondered whether he might be developing a persecution complex; it
seemed as though every time he turned around, Venus Equilateral was in
his hair, asking for something or other. And he was not in any position
to quibble about it. Kingman was smart enough to carry his tray very
level. Knowing that they were waiting for a chance to prove that he had
been connected with the late Hellion Murdoch made him very cautious.
There was no doubt in any mind that Murdoch was written off the books.
But whether Murdoch had made a sufficiently large impression on the
books of Terran Electric to have the connection become evident--that
worried Kingman.

So he swore at each telegram that came in, and then sent the desired
object out with the next ship. Compared to his former attitude toward
Venus Equilateral, Mark Kingman was behaving like an honor student in a
Sunday school.

Furthermore, behaving himself did not make him feel good.

He punched the buzzer, told his secretary to call in the shop foreman,
and then sat back and wondered about the 'gram.

He was still wondering when the man entered. Kingman looked up and
fixed his superintendent with a fish glance. "Horman, can you guess why
the Venus Equilateral crowd would want two dozen gauge blocks?"

"Sure. We use Johannson Blocks all the time."

"Channing wants twenty-four blocks. All three inches on a side--cubes.
Square to within thirty seconds of angle, and each of the six faces
optically flat to one quarter wave length of Cadmium light."

"_Whoosh!_" said Horman. "I presume the three-inch dimension must be
within a half wave length?"

"They're quite lenient," said Kingman bitterly. "A full wave length!"

"White of them," grunted Horman. "I suppose the same thing applies?"

"We're running over thin ice," said Kingman reflectively. "I can't
afford to play rough. We'll make up their blocks."

"I wonder what they want 'em for."

"Something tricky, I'll bet."

"But what could you use two dozen gauge blocks for? All the same size."

"Inspection standards?" asked Kingman.

"Not unless they're just being difficult. You don't put primary gauges
on any production line. You make secondary gauges for production
line use and keep a couple of primaries in the check room to try the
secondaries on. In fact, you usually have a whole set of gauge blocks
to build up to any desired dimension so that you don't have to stock a
half-million of different sizes."

"It's possible that they may be doing something extremely delicate?"

"Possible," said Horman slowly. "But not too probable. On the other
hand, I may be one hundred percent wrong. I don't know all the
different stuff a man can make, by far. My own experience indicates
that nothing like that would be needed. But that's just one man's
experience."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Channing and that gang of roughneck scientists have been known to make
some fancy gadgets," said Kingman grudgingly.

"If you'll pardon my mentioning the subject," said Horman in a scathing
tone, "you'd have been far better off to tag along with 'em instead of
fighting 'em."

"I'll get 'em yet!"

"What's it got you so far?"

"I'm not too bad off. I've come up from the assistant chief legal
counsel of Terran Electric to controlling the company."

"And Terran Electric has slid down from the topmost outfit in the
system to a seventh rater."

"We'll climb back. At any rate, I'm better off personally. You're
better off personally. In fact, everybody that had enough guts to stay
with us is better off."

"Yeah--I know. It sounds good on paper. But make a bum move again,
Kingman, and we'll all be in jail. You'd better forget that hatred
against Venus Equilateral and come down to earth."

"Well, I've been a good boy for them once. After all, I did point out
the error in their patent on the solar beam."

"That isn't all. Don't forget that Terran Electric's patent was at
error too."

"Frankly it was a minor error. It's one of those things that is easy to
get caught on. You know how it came about?"

"Nope. I accepted it just like everybody else. It took some outsider to
laugh at me and tell me why."

Kingman smiled. "It's easy to get into easy thinking. They took power
from Sirius--believe it or not--and then made some there-and-back time
measurements and came up with a figure that was about the square of one
hundred eighty-six thousand miles per second. But you know that you
can't square a velocity and come up with anything that looks sensible.
The square of a velocity must be some concept like an expanding area."

"Or would it be two spots diverging along the sides of a right angle?"
queried Horman idly. "What was their final answer?"

"The velocity of light is a concept. It is based on the flexibility
of space--its physical constants, so to speak. Channing claims that
the sub-etheric radiation bands of what we have learned to call the
driver radiation propagates along some other medium than space itself.
I think they were trying to establish some mathematical relation--which
might be all right, but you can't establish that kind of relation
and hope to hold it. The square of C in meters comes out differently
than the square of C in miles, inches, or a little-used standard, the
light-second, in which the velocity of light is unity, or One. Follow?
Anyway, they made modulation equipment of some sort and measured the
velocity and came up with a finite figure which is slightly less than
the square of one hundred eighty-six thousand miles per second. Their
original idea was wrong. It was just coincidence that the two figures
came out that way. Anyway," smiled Kingman, "I pointed it out to them
and they quick changed their patent letters. So, you see, I've been of
some help."

"Nice going. Well, I'm going to make those gauges. It'll take us one
long time, too. Johannson Blocks aren't the easiest thing in the world
to make."

"What would you make secondary standards out of?"

"We use glass gauges, mostly. They don't dinge or bend when
dropped--they go to pieces or not at all. We can't have a bent gauge
rejecting production parts, you know, and steel gauges can be bent.
Besides, you can grind glass to a half wave length of light with ease,
but polishing steel is another item entirely."

"I'm going to call Channing and ask him about glass blocks. It may
be that he might use them. Plus the fact that I may get an inkling
of the ultimate use. They have no production lines running on Venus
Equilateral, have they?"

"Nope. Not at all. They're not a manufacturing company."

"Well, I'm going to call."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kingman's voice raced across Terra to Hawaii, went on the
communications beams of the sky-pointing reflectors, and rammed
through the Heaviside Layer to Luna. At the Lunar Station, his voice
was mingled in multiplex with a thousand others and placed on the
sub-ether beams to Venus Equilateral.

Don Channing answered the 'phone. "Yes?"

"Kingman, Dr. Channing."

Don grunted. He did not care to be addressed by title when someone who
disliked him did it. His friends did not, and Kingman's use of the
title made it an insult.

"Look," said Kingman, "what do you want to use those blocks for?"

"We've got a job of checking dimensions."

"Nothing more? Do you need the metal for electrical reasons?"

"No," said Don. "What have you in mind?"

"Our toolshop is nicely equipped to grind glass gauges. We can do that
better than making Jo-blocks. Can you use glass ones?"

"Hang on a minute." Channing turned to Walt. "Kingman says his outfit
uses glass gauges. Any reason why we can't?"

"See no reason why not. I've heard of using glass gauges, and they've
got some good reasons, too. Tell him to go ahead."

"Kingman? How soon can we get glass ones?"

"Horman, how soon on the glass blocks?"

"Two dozen? About a week."

"We'll have your blocks on the way within four days, Channing. Four
days minimum, plus whatever wait is necessary to get 'em aboard a
spacer."

"We'll check from this end on schedules. We need the blocks, and if
the wait is too long, we'll send the _Relay Girl_ in for 'em."

Don hung up and then said: "Glass ones might be a good idea. We can
check the transmission characteristics optically. I think we can check
more, quickly, than by running analysis on steel."

"Plus the fact that you can get the blocks back after test," grinned
Walt. "Once you tear into a steel block to check its insides, you've
lost your sample. I don't know any other way to check the homogeneity
than by optical tests."

"O.K. Well, four days for glass will do better than a couple of months
on steel blocks."

"Right. Now let's look up Wes and see what he's come up with."

       *       *       *       *       *

They found Farrell in one of the blister laboratories, working on a
small edition of the power-transmission tubes. He was not dressed in
spacesuit, and so they entered the blister and watched him work.

"Have a little trouble getting the focus to stay sharp through the
trace," complained Wes. "I can get focus of atomic proportions--the
circle of confusion is about the size of the atom nucleus, I mean--at
the axis of the tube. But the deflection of the cone of energy produces
aberration, which causes coma at the edges. The corners of an area look
fierce."

"I wonder if mechanical scanning wouldn't work better."

"Undoubtedly. You don't hope to send life, do you?"

"It would be nice--but no more fantastic than this thing is now.
What's your opinion?"

Wes loosened a set screw on the main tube anode and set the anode
forward a barely perceptible distance. He checked it with a vernier
rule and tightened the screw. He made other adjustments on the works
of the tube itself, and then motioned outside. They left the blister,
Wes closed the airtight, and cracked the valve that let the air out of
the blister. He snapped the switch on the outside panel and then leaned
back in his chair while the cathode heated.

"With electrical scanning, you'll have curvature of field with this
gadget. That isn't too bad, I suppose, because the restorer will have
the same curvature. But you're going to scan three ways, which means
correction for the linear distance from the tube as well as the other
side deflections and their aberrations. Now if we could scan the gadget
mechanically, we'd have absolute flatness of field, perfect focus, and
so forth."

Walt grinned. "Thinking of television again? Look, bright fellows, how
do you move an assembly of mechanical parts in quanta of one atomic
diameter? They've been looking for that kind of gadget for centuries.
Dr. Rowland and his gratings would turn over in their graves with a
contrivance that could rule lines one atom apart."

"On what?" asked Don.

"If it would rule one atom lines, brother, you could put a million
lines per inch on anything rulable with perfection, ease, eclat, and
savoir faire. You follow my argument? Or would you rather take up this
slip of my tongue and make something out of it?"

"O.K., fella. I see your point. How about that one, Wes?"

Wes Farrell grinned. "Looks like I'll be getting perfect focus with
the electrical system here. I hadn't considered the other angle at all,
but it looks a lot tougher than I thought."

He squinted through a wall-mounted telescope at the set-up on the
inside of the blister. "She's hot," he remarked quietly, and then set
to checking the experiment. Fifteen minutes of checking, and making
notes, and he turned to the others with a smile. "Not too bad that
way," he said.

"What are you doing?"

"I've established a rather complex field. In order to correct the
aberrations, I've got nonlinear focusing fields in the places where
they tend to correct for the off-axis aberration. To correct for the
height-effect, I'm putting a variable corrector to control the whole
cone of energy, stretching it or shortening it according to the needs.
I think if I use a longer focal length I'll be able to get the thing
running right.

"That'll lessen the need for correction, too," he added, cracking the
blister-intake valve and letting the air hiss into the blister. He
opened the door and went inside, and began to adjust the electrodes.
"You know," he added over his shoulder, "we've got something here that
might bring in a few dollars on the side. This matter-bank affair
produces clean, clear, and practically pure metal. You might be able to
sell some metal that was rated 'pure' and mean it."

"You mean absolutely, positively, guaranteed, uncontaminated,
unadulterated, perfectly chemically pure?" grinned Don.

"Compared to what 'Chemically Pure' really means, your selection of
adjectives is a masterpiece of understatement," laughed Walt.

"I'm about to make one more try," announced Wes. "Then I'm going to
drop this for the time being. I've got to get up to the machine shop
and see what they're doing with the rest of the thing."

"We'll take over that if you wish," said Don.

"Will you? I'll appreciate it. I sort of hate to let this thing go when
I feel that I'm near an answer."

"We'll do it," said Walt. "Definitely."

       *       *       *       *       *

They left the laboratory and made their way to the elevator that would
lift them high into the Relay Station where the machine shop was
located. As they entered the elevator, Don shook his head.

"What's the matter?"

"Well, Friend Farrell is on the beam again. If he feels that we're
close to the answer, I'll bet a hat that we're hanging right on the
edge. Also, that kind of work would kill me dead. He likes to stick on
one thing until the bitter end, no matter how long it takes. I couldn't
do it."

"I know. About three hours of this and you're wanting another job to
clear your mind. Then you could tackle that one for about three hours
and take back on the first."

"Trying to do that to Farrell would kill both him and the jobs," said
Don. "But you and I can keep two or three projects going strong. Oh
well, Wes is worth a million."

"He's the best we've got," agreed Walt. "Just because he has a peculiar
slant on life is no sign he's not brilliant."

"It's you and I that have the cockeyed slant on life," grinned Don.
"And frankly, I'm proud of it." He swung the elevator door aside and
they walked down the corridor. "This isn't going to be much to see, but
we'll take a look."

The machine shop, to the man, was clustered around the one cabinet
under construction. They moved aside to permit the entry of Channing
and Franks.

"Hm-m-m," said Don. "Looks like a refrigerator and incinerator
combined."

It did. It stood five feet tall, three feet square, and was sealed in
front by a heavy door. There was a place intended for the tube that
Farrell was tinkering with in the blister, and the lines to supply the
power were coiled behind the cabinet.

"Partly wired?" asked Don.

"Just the power circuits," answered Walton. "We'll have this finished
in a couple of days more. The other one is completed except for Wes
Farrell's section."

Channing nodded, and said: "Keep it going." He turned to Walt and after
the passage of a knowing glance, the pair left. "Walt, this waiting is
getting on my nerves. I want to go down to Joe's and drink myself into
a stupor which will last until they get something cogent to work on."

"I'm with you, but what will Arden say?"

"I'm going to get Arden. Self-protection. She'd cut my feet off at the
knees if I went off on a tear without her."

"I have gathered that," grinned Walt. "You're afraid of her."

"Yeah," drawled Don. "After all--she's the cook."

"I'm waiting."

"Waiting for what?"

"If and when. If you two go on as you have for another year without one
of you turning up with a black eye, I may be tempted to go forth and
track me down a dame of my own."

       *       *       *       *       *

The cabinet stood in the north end of Venus Equilateral but it was not
alone. It may even be the record for all times; certainly no other
cabinet three by three by five ever had twenty-seven men all standing
in a circle awaiting developments. The cabinet at the south end of
Venus Equilateral was no less popular, though the number of watchers
was less by one. Here, then, were winner and runner-up of inanimate
popularity for the ages. The communicator system set in the walls
of the two rooms carried sounds from the north room to the south,
and those sounds in the south room could be heard in the north room.
Channing grinned boyishly at Arden.

"This, my love, is a device which may make it quite possible for me to
send you back to mother."

Arden smiled serenely. "No dice," she said, "Mother went back to
grandmother last week. When is this thing going to cook?"

"Directly."

"What are we waiting for?"

"Walt."

"I'm ready," came Walt's voice through the speaker.

"About time, slowpoke."

"Really, it was not his fault," objected Wes. "I wanted to check the
scanner-synchronization."

"He's precious," chortled Arden in Don's ear. "He wouldn't think of
letting Walt--the big bum--take the blame for anything that wasn't
Walt's fault."

"That's a good line," grinned Don. "Walt's faults. After we set this
thing aside as a finished project, we'll set that 'Walt's faults' to
music. Ready, Walt?"

"Right. I am now slipping the block into the cabinet. The door is
closed. Have you got the preliminary synchronizing signal in tick?"

Channing called: "Wait a minute, I'm lagging a whole cycle."

"Cut your synchronization input and let the thing catch up."

"O. K. Um-m-m--Now, Walt."

"Has anyone any last words to say?" asked Walt.

No answer.

"Then since no one has any objections at this time, I assume that
everything may be run off. Silence, people, we are going on the air!"

"There was a very faint odor of corn in Walt's last remark," said Don.

"I think the corn was on his breath," said Arden.

"Done!" announced Walt. "Don, crack the door so that the rest of us
can laugh if it don't work."

Channing swaggered over and opened the door. He reached inside and took
out the--object.

He held it up.

"Walt," said he, "what are you giving me?"

"Huh?"

"I presume that you shipped me one of the cubes?"

"Right."

"Well, what we got at this end would positively scare the right arm off
of a surrealist sculptor."

"Hang on to it--I'll be up."

"Hang on to it?" laughed Don. "I'm afraid to."

It was three miles from one end of Venus Equilateral to the other and
Walt made it in six minutes from the time he stepped into the little
runaway car to the time he came into the north-end laboratory and
looked over Channing's shoulder at the--thing--that stood on the table.

"Um," he said. "Sort of distorted, isn't it?"

"Quite," said Don. "This is glass. It was once a three-inch cube of
precision, polish, and beauty. It is now a combination of a circular
stairway with round corners and a sort of accordion pleat. Hell's
bells!"

"Be not discouraged," gurgled Walt. "No matter what it looks like, we
did transmit matter."

Arden tapped Don on the shoulder. "May I say it now?"

"You do--!"

"Then I won't say it doesn't matter."

"I'm ignoring your crude remark. Walt, we did accomplish something. It
wasn't too good. Now let's figure out why this thing seems to have been
run over with a fourth dimensional caterpillar-tread truck."

"Well, I can hazard a guess. The synchronizing circuits were not
clamped perfectly. That gives the accordion-pleat effect. The starting
of the trace was not made at the same place each time due to slippage.
We'll have to beef up the synchronization impulse. The circular
staircase effect was probably due to phase distortion."

"Could be," said Don. "That means we have to beef up the transmission
band so it'll carry a higher frequency."

"A lower impedance with corrective elements?"

"Might work. Those will have to be matched closely. We're not
transmitting on a line, you know. It's sheer transmission-tube stuff
from here to there. Well, gang, we've had our fun. Now let's widen the
transmission band and beef up the sync. Then we'll try number two."

       *       *       *       *       *

Number two was tried the following afternoon. Again, everybody stood
around and watched over Don's shoulder as he removed the cube from the
cabinet.

"Nice," he said, doing a little war dance.

Franks came in puffing, took the cube from Don's fingers and inspected
it. "Not too bad," he said.

"Perfect."

"Not by a jug full. The index of refraction is higher at this edge
than at the other. See? Walt held the cube before a newspaper and they
squinted through the glass block.

"Seems to be. Now why?"

"Second harmonic distortion, if present, would tend to thin out one
side and thicken up the other side. A sine-wave transmission would
result in even thicknesses, but if second harmonic distortion is
present, the broad loops at the top create a condition where the
average from zero to top is higher than the average from zero to the
other peak. Follow?"

"That would indicate that the distortion was coming in at this end. If
both were even, they would cancel."

"Right. Your scanning at one end is regular--at the other end it is
irregular, resulting in non-homogeneity."

"The corners aren't really sharp," objected Arden.

"That's an easy one. The wave-front isn't sharp either. Instead of
clipping sharply at the end of the trace, the signal tapers off. That
means higher frequency response is needed."

"We need a term. Audio for sonics; radio for electronics, video for
television signals--"

"Mateo," said Arden.

"Um--sounds sort of silly," grinned Walt.

"That's because it's strange. Mateo it is," said Don. "Our mateo
amplifier needs higher frequency response in order to follow the square
wave-front. Might put a clipper circuit in there, too."

"I think a clipper and sharpener will do more than the higher
frequency," said Farrell. He was plying a vernier caliper, and he
added: "I'm certain of that second harmonic stuff now. The dimension is
cockeyed on this side. Tell you what, Don. I'm going to have the index
of refraction measured within an inch of its life. Then we'll check the
thing and apply some high-powered math and see if we can come up with
the percentage of distortion."

"Go ahead. Meanwhile, we'll apply the harmonic analyzer to this
thing and see what we find. If we square up the edges and make her
homogeneous, we'll be in business."

"The space lines will hate you to pieces," said Arden.

"Nope. I doubt that we could send anything very large. It might be more
bother to run a huge job than the money it costs to send it by spacer.
But we have a market for small stuff that is hard to handle in space
because of its size."

"I see no reason why Keg Johnson wouldn't go for a hunk of it," offered
Wes Farrell.

"I've mentioned it to Keg; the last time I was in Canalopsis," said
Walt. "He wasn't too worried--providing he could buy a hunk."

"Interplanet is pretty progressive," mused Don. "There'll be no reason
why we can't make some real handy loose change out of this. Well, let's
try again tomorrow."

"O. K. Let's break this up. Will we need any more blocks from Terran
Electric?"

It was less than a month later that a newspaper reporter caught the
advanced patent notice and swallowed hard. He did a double take, shook
his head, and then read the names on the patent application and decided
that someone was not fooling. He took leave and made the run to Venus
Equilateral to interview the officials. He returned not only with a
story, but with a sample glass block that he had seen run through the
machine.

The news pushed one hatchet murder, a bank robbery, a football upset,
and three political harangues all the way back to page seven. In terms
more glowing than scientifically accurate, the matter transmitter
screamed in three-inch headlines, trailed down across the page in
smaller type, and was embellished with pictures, diagrams, and a
description of the apparatus. The latter had been furnished by
Walt Franks, and had been rewritten by the reporter because Walt's
description was too dry.

The following morning Venus Equilateral had nine rush telegrams. Three
were from cranks who wanted to go to Sirius and set up a restorer there
to take people; four were from superstitious nuts who called Channing's
attention to the fact that he was overstepping the rights given to him
by his Creator; one was from a gentleman who had a number of ideas, all
of which were based on the idea of getting something for nothing, and
none of which were legal; and the last one was a rather curt note from
Terran Electric, pointing out that this device came under the realm of
the power-transmission tube and its developments and that they wanted a
legal discussion.

"Have they got a leg to stand on?" asked Walt.

"I doubt it."

"Then to the devil with them," snapped Walt. "We'll tell 'em to go jump
in the lake."

"Nope. We're going in to Terra and slip them the slug. If we clip them
now, they'll have nothing to go on. If we wait until they get started,
they'll have a fighting chance. Besides, I think that all they want to
do is to have the facts brought out. Are we or are we not under the
terms of that contract?"

"Are we?"

"We're as safe as Sol. And I know it. That contract pertained to the
use of the Solar beam only, plus certain other concessions pertaining
to the use of the power-transmission tubes and other basic effects as
utilized in communications."

"Why can't we tell 'em that?"

"It's got to be told in a court of law," said Don. "Kingman's mind runs
to legal procedure like Blackstone."

"We'll take the gadgets?"

"Right. What are you using for power?"

"What other? Solar beams, of course. We don't bother about running
stuff around any more. We plug it in the 115-volt line, it energizes
the little fellows just long enough to make them self-sustaining from
Sol. All the 115-volt line does is to act as a starting circuit."

"You and Farrell had better dream up a couple of power supplies, then.
We can't use the Solar beam on Terra."

"I know. We're a little ahead of you on that. Wes and one of the Thomas
boys cooked up a beam-transducer power supply that will get its juice
from any standard 115-volt, sixty-cycle line socket. We've two of
them--and they run the things easily."

"Good. I'll 'gram Terran Electric and let 'em know we're on our way for
the legal tangle. You load up the _Relay Girl_ and we'll be on our way.
Stock up the usual supply of bars, blocks, gadgets, and traps. Might
include a bar magnet. When we show that it is still magnetized, we'll
gain a point for sure."

"If we take a magnet, we'd better take the fluxmeter to show that the
magnetic field hasn't dropped."

"Right. Take anything you can think of for a good show. We can knock
them dead!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mark Kingman put his assistant legal counsel on the witness stand. "You
will state the intent of the contract signed between Terran Electric
and Venus Equilateral."

"The contract holds the following intent: Use of the power-transmission
tubes for communications purposes shall fall under the jurisdiction of
Venus Equilateral. For power transmission, the tubes and associated
equipment is under the control of Terran Electric. In the matter of the
Solar beam tubes, the contract is as follows: Venus Equilateral holds
the control of the Solar beam in space, on man-made bodies in space,
and upon those natural bodies in space where Venus Equilateral requires
the Solar power to maintain subsidiary relay stations."

"Please clarify the latter," said Kingman. "Unless it is your intent to
imply that Terra, Mars, and Mercury fall under the classification of
'places where Venus Equilateral requires power.'"

"Their control on natural celestial objects extends only to their
own installations and requirements. Basically, aside from their own
power requirements, Venus Equilateral is not authorized to sell
power. In short, the contract implies that the use of the sub-etheric
phenomena is divided so that Venus Equilateral may use this region for
communications, while Terran Electric uses the sub-ether for power. In
space, however, Venus Equilateral holds the rights to the Solar beam."

Frank Tinkin, head legal man of Venus Equilateral, turned to Don and
said: "We should have this in a technical court."

Don took his attention from the long discussion of the contract and
asked: "Why not change?"

"Judges hate people who ask for change of court. It is bad for the
requestee--and is only done when the judge is open to the question or
disinterested--and also when the suspicion of dislike is less dangerous
than the judge himself."

"Well, this should be in a technical court."

"Want to chance it?'

"I think so. This is more than likely to turn up with differential
equations, physics experts, and perhaps a demonstration of
atom-smashing."

Kingman finished his examination and turned away. The judge nodded
sourly at Tinkin. "Cross-examination?"

Tinkin faced the witness, nodded, and then faced the court.

"The witness' statements regarding the contract are true. However,
Judge Hamilton, I will attempt to show that this case is highly
technical in nature and as such falls under the jurisdiction of the
Technical Court. May I proceed?"

"Counsel for the plaintiff assures me that this is not truly a
technical case," snapped Hamilton. "However if you can definitely prove
that the case in point hinges on purely technical matters, what you say
may be instrumental in having this hearing changed. Proceed."

"Thank you." Tinkin turned to the witness. "Exactly what is the point
in question?"

"The point in question," said the witness, "is whether or not the
matter transmitter falls under Terran Electric's contract or Venus
Equilateral's contract."

"Isn't the question really a matter of whether the basic effect is
technically communication or power transmission?"

"Objection!" barked Kingman. "The counsel is leading the witness."

"Objection permitted--strike the question from the record."

"I was merely trying to bring out the technical aspect of the case,"
explained Tinkin. "I'll rephrase the question. Is it not true that the
contract between Terran Electric and Venus Equilateral is based upon a
certain technology?"

"Certainly."

"Then if the case is based on technical aspects--?"

"Objection!" marked Kingman. "More than half of all manufacturing
contracts are based upon technical background. I quote the case of
Hines versus Ingall in which the subject matter was the development of
a new type of calculating machine. This case was heard in a legal court
and disposed of in the same."

"Objection permitted."

"No further examination," said Tinkin. He sat down and turned to Don.
"We're in trouble, Hamilton does not like us."

"Well, we still have the whip hand."

"Right, but before we get done we'll have trouble with Hamilton."

"Before we get done, Kingman will have trouble with us," said Don.

       *       *       *       *       *

Terran Electric's lawyer called Wes Farrell to the stand. "Mr. Farrell,
you are employed by Venus Equilateral?"

"Yes."

"In what capacity?"

"As an experimental physicist."

"And as such, you were involved in some phases of the device under
discussion?"

"I was," said Farrell.

"Does the device make use of the Solar beam?"

"It does but--"

"Thank you," interrupted Kingman.

"I'm not through," snapped Farrell. "The Solar beam is not integral."

"It is used, though."

"It may be removed. If necessary, we can have hand-generators supplied
to generate the operating power."

"I see," said Kingman sourly. "The device itself is entirely new and
basic?"

"Not entirely. The main components are developments of existing parts,
specialized to fit the requirements."

"They are based on specifically what?"

"Certain effects noted in the power-transmission tubes plus certain
effects noted in the Solar beam tubes."

"And which of these effects is more contributory?"

"Both are about equally responsible. One will be useless without the
other."

Kingman turned to the judge. "I intend to show that the use of these
effects is stated in the contract."

"Proceed."

"Was there any time during the development of the device any question
of jurisdiction?"

"None whatever," said Farrell. "We knew how we stood."

"The statement is hearsay and prejudiced," stated Kingman.

"Strike it from the record," snapped Hamilton.

"It stands at 'none whatever,'" said Kingman.

The secretary nodded.

"Since absolutely no attention was paid to the terms of the contract,
doesn't that imply that a certain ignorance of the terms might prevail?"

"Objection!" shouted Tinkin. "Counsel's question implies legal
carelessness on the part of his opponent."

"How can you be aware of the ramifications of a contract that you do
not read?" stormed Kingman.

"Objection overruled."

"May I take exception?" requested Tinkin.

"Exception noted. Counsel, will you rephrase your question so that no
lack of foresight is implied?"

"Certainly," smiled Kingman. "How were you certain that you were within
your rights?"

"If this plan had been open to any question, my superiors would not
have permitted me--"

"That will not serve!" snapped Kingman. "You are making an
implication--your testimony is biased."

"Naturally," barked Farrell. "No one but an idiot would claim to have
no opinion."

"Does that include the court?" asked Kingman suavely.

"Naturally not," retorted Farrell. "I was speaking of interested
parties."

"Let it pass. In other words, Dr. Farrell, you were never sure that you
were within your rights?"

"I object!" exploded Tinkin. "Counsel is questioning a witness whose
business is not legal matters on a subject which is legal in every
phase."

"Objection sustained," said Hamilton wearily. The matter was dropped,
but Kingman had gained his point. The item may never appear in the
records, but it was present in the judge's mind.

"Dr. Farrell," said Kingman, "since you have no legal training,
precisely what has been your education and background?"

"I hold a few degrees in physics, one in mathematics, and also in
physical chemistry." Farrell turned to the judge. "Judge Hamilton, may
I explain my position here?"

"You may."

"I have spent thirteen years studying physics and allied sciences. I
believe that I stand fairly high among my fellows. Since no man may be
capable in many arts, I believe that I have not been lax in not seeking
degrees in law."

"No objection," said Kingman. "Dr. Farrell, in order that the process
be properly outlined in the record, I am going to ask you to explain it
in brief. How does your matter transmitter work?"

Farrell nodded, and took time to think. Tinkin whispered in Don's ear:
"The stinker! He knows Hamilton hates anything more complex than a can
opener!"

"What can we do?"

"Hope that our demonstration blasts them loose. That's our best bet,
plus fighting for every inch."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farrell moistened his lips and said: "Utilizing certain effects noted
with earlier experimentation, we have achieved the following effects.
The matter to be transmitted is placed in situ, where it is scanned
by an atom-scanner. This tube removes the substance, atom by atom,
converting the atoms to energy. This energy is then reconverted into
atoms and stored in a matter bank as matter again. The energy of
disintegration is utilized in reintegration at the matter bank with
but small losses. Since some atoms have higher energy than others, the
matter bank's composition will depend upon the scanned substance."

"The matter bank is composed of the same elements as the matter for
transmission?" asked Kingman.

"No. Some elements release more energy than others. It is desirable
that the energy-transfer be slightly negative. That is to say that
additional energy must be used in order to make the thing work."

"Why?

"All power lines and other devices are developed for delivering
energy, not receiving it. It is less disastrous to take energy from a
power line than to try and drive it back in--and the energy must be
dissipated somehow."

"Then the matter bank is not the same material."

"No," said Farrell. "The substance of the matter bank is
nonhomogeneous. Instantaneously, it will be whatever element is
necessary to maintain the fine balance of energy--and it is in constant
change."

"Proceed," said Kingman.

"In passing from the disintegrator tube to reintegrator tube, the
energy impresses its characteristic signal on a sub-ether transmission
system. Radio might work, except that the signal is unbelievably
complex. Wired communications--"

"Objection to the term," said Kingman.

"Sustained."

"Wired ... transfer? ... might work, but probably would not due to
this same high complexity in transmitted signal. At any rate, upon
reception, the signal is used to influence, or modulate, the energy
passing from a disintegrator tube to a reintegrator tube in the
receiver. But this time the tube is tearing down the matter bank and
restoring the object. Follow?"

"I believe so. Does the Court understand?"

"This Court can follow the technical terms."

"Now, Dr. Farrell, the matter transmitter does actually transmit over a
power-transmission tube?"

"Yes. Of the type developed by us for communications."

"But it is a power tube?"

"Yes."

"Then are you certain that you are sending no energy?"

"I object!" shouted Tinkin. "The question has no answer!"

"Hasn't it?" queried Kingman. "My worthy opponent, all questions have
an answer."

"Objection overruled," snapped Hamilton sourly. "Let the witness
answer."

"It is impossible to send communications without sending some energy.
It is the intent to which the energy is put that determines the
classification."

"Explain further."

"You must send energy when you communicate with a light-blinker,"
grinned Farrell, "The receiving party receives the energy, but couldn't
possibly read a newspaper with it. The beams at Venus Equilateral send
out several million watts--and by the time they get to Luna, they
require amplifications bordering on the million-times before they are
usable. The intent is clear--we are not supplying power, we are sending
intelligence."

"I contend," said Kingman to the judge, "that the contract states
clearly that developments of this device are to be used for
communications only when operated by Venus Equilateral. I further
contend that the transmission of matter does not constitute a
communication, but rather a transfer of energy."

"I object," said Tinkin. "If this statement was objectionable to the
learned counsel before, it is equally objectionable to me now."

"Previously," said Kingman suavely, "counsel was trying to influence a
witness. I am merely trying to explain my point."

Hamilton cleared his throat. "Counsel is merely attempting to influence
the Court; the same privilege will be available to his opponent at the
proper time. That is why we have courts."

Tinkin sat down.

"I maintain that the concept of communication precludes matter
transmission," stormed Kingman. "Matter transmission becomes a problem
for the transportation companies and the power companies. Matter, your
honor, is energy. They are transmitting energy!"

He stalked over to Tinkin and smiled affably. "Cross-examination?" he
offered.

"No questions," said Tinkin.

Hamilton rapped on the bench. "Court is adjourned for ten minutes!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Looking for something?" asked Don. Arden turned from the window and
faced him.

"I was trying to see Niagara Falls," she smiled. "I've heard that you
could see 'em from Buffalo."

"You can," laughed her husband, "but not from this part of Buffalo.
What do you want to see Niagara Falls for, anyway? Just a lot of water
falling over a cliff at two pints to the quart."

"If you recall, chum, we went to Mars, not Niagara. There wasn't two
pints of water on the whole planet, let alone a thing like Niagara."

Don nodded. "At the risk of offending a lot of Buffalonians, I'm
beginning to dislike the place."

"It isn't the people," said Arden. "It's the position we're in. Bad,
huh?"

"Not going too good at all. Kingman slips in a sly dig every now and
then. Frankly, I am getting worried. He's got a few points that really
hit very close to home. If he can sell the judge on a couple more of
them, we'll be under the sod."

"You won't be out entirely, will you?"

"Not entirely. He'll have to use the beams of Venus Equilateral to
operate, but he'll be collecting all the real gravy. We'll just be
leasing our beams to him."

"Well, don't go down without a fight, chum."

"I won't. I really hate to see Kingman get ahead of this, though."
Don stretched, took another look out across the city of Buffalo, and
then said: "We'd best be getting back. We'll be late ... he said ten
minutes."

They went down the staircase slowly, and at the courtroom door they met
Keg Johnson. The latter smiled wearily. "Not too good?"

"Nope."

"Don, if you lose, then what?"

"Appeal, I guess."

"That isn't too good. Judges do not reverse lower courts unless a real
miscarriage of justice takes place."

"I know, but that's our only chance."

"What would you advise me to do?"

"Meaning?" asked Don.

"Interplanet. We'll be run right out of business if this thing goes
over to Kingman and that bunch."

"I know."

"Look, Don, have you tried living matter?"

"Plants go through with no ill effects. Microscopic life does, too.
Animals we have tried usually die because of internal disorders--but
they move while being scanned, and their bodies come out looking rather
ugly. An anaesthetized mouse went through all right--lived for several
hours. Died because the breathing-function made a microscopic rift in
the lungs, and the beating heart didn't quite meet true. We must speed
up the scanning-time to a matter of micro-seconds and then we can send
living bodies with no harm."

"That would clean out the space lines," said Keg. "I think I'll offer
that bird a slice of Interplanet for an interest, if he wins. We've got
to have it, Don."

"I know, Keg. No hard feelings."

"Of course," said Keg wistfully. "We'll be across a barrel if you win,
too. But the barrel will be less painful with you holding the handles
than if Terran Electric holds them. The same offer goes for you, too."

"O.K.," nodded Channing. He turned and entered the courtroom.

Tinkin called Don Channing to the stand as his first witness. Don
explained the function of Venus Equilateral, the job of interplanetary
communications, and their work along other lines of endeavor. Then
Tinkin said to the judge:

"I have here a glass cube, three inches on a side. This cube was
transmitted from Venus Equilateral to the Lunar Station. I offer it as
Exhibit A. It was a test-sample, and as you see, it emerged from the
test absolutely perfect."

The judge took the cube, examined it with some interest, and then set
it down on the desk.

"Now," said Tinkin, "if you do not object, I should like to present a
demonstration of the matter transmitter. May I?"

Hamilton brightened slightly. "Permission is granted."

"Thank you." Tinkin made motions and the technicians came in with the
two cabinets.

"This isn't good," said Kingman's assistant to the lawyer. "The old
goat looks interested."

"Don't worry," said Kingman. "This'll take a long time, and by the time
they get done, Hamilton will be ready to throw them out. Besides, it
will make a good arguing point for my final blast. And, brother, I've
got a talking-point that will scream for itself."

"But suppose they convince--"

"Look," smiled Kingman, "this is really no argument as to whether
matter or intelligence is carried. Believe me, that has nothing to do
with it. I'm keeping this one under the wraps until shooting-time so
they won't be able to get an argument against it. We're a cinch. That's
why I kept it in a legal court instead of a technical court. The Techs
would award it to Channing on a technical basis, but the legal boys
have got to follow my argument."

"How about an appeal?"

"The record of this court is still a very heavy argument. Look, they're
about to start."

The racket and hubbub died, and Tinkin faced the judge. "These are
plainly labeled. They are matter transmitter and matter receiver.
We have here a set of metal bars. They are made of copper, steel,
aluminum, some complex alloys, and the brother to that glass cube you
have before you. We will transmit this set of objects from here to
there. Have you any suggestions?"

"A matter of control and identity. What have you for control?"

"Nothing that is outside of our hands," smiled Tinkin. "Would you
care to send something of your own? Your gavel? Inkwell? Marked coin?
Anything?"

"I'd offer my glasses except for the fact that I can not see without
them," said Judge Hamilton.

"We wouldn't break them or damage them a bit."

"I know--that much faith I have--but I'd not see the experiment."

"A good point. Anything else?"

"My watch. It is unique enough for me." He handed over the watch, which
was quite sizable.

Tinkin inspected the watch and smiled. "Very old, isn't it? A real
collector's item, I daresay."

Hamilton beamed. "There are nine of them in the Solar System," he said.
"And I know where the other eight are."

"O.K., we'll put it on the top. I'll have to stop it, because the
movement of the balance wheel would cause a rift during transmission."

"How about the spring tension?"

"No need to worry about that. We've sent loaded springs before. Now,
people, stand back and we'll go on the air."

       *       *       *       *       *

Don Channing himself inspected the machinery to see that nothing was
wrong. He nodded at Walt Franks at the receiver, and then started the
initial operations. "We are synchronizing the two machines," he said.
"Absolute synchronization is necessary. Ready, Walt?"

"Right!"

Channing pushed a button. There was a minute, whirring hum, a crackle
of ozone, very faint, and the almost-imperceptible wave of heat from
both machines. "Now," said Walt Franks, "we'll see."

He opened the cabinet and reached in with a flourish.

His face fell. It turned rosy. He opened his mouth to speak, but
nothing but choking sounds came forth. He spluttered, took a deep
breath, and then shook his head in slow negation. Slowly, like a boy
coming in for a whipping, Walt took out the judge's watch. He handed it
to Don.

Don, knowing from Walt's expression that something was very, very
wrong, took the watch gingerly, but quickly. He hated to look and was
burning with worried curiosity at the same time.

In all three dimensions, the watch had lost its shape. It was no longer
a lenticular object, but had a very faint sine wave in its structure.
The round case was distorted in this wave, and the face went through
the same long swell and ebb as the case. The hands maintained their
distance from this wavy face by conforming to the sine-wave contour of
the watch. And Channing knew without opening the watch that the insides
were all created on the sine-wave principle, too. The case wouldn't
have opened, Don knew, because it was a screw-on case, and the threads
were rippling up and down along with the case and cover. The knurled
stem wouldn't have turned, and as Channing shook the watch gently, it
gave forth with one--and only one--tick as the slack in the distorted
balance wheel went out.

He faced the judge. "We seem--"

"You blasted fools and idiots!" roared the judge. "Nine of them--!"

He turned and stiffly went to his seat. Channing returned to the
witness chair.

"How do you explain that?" roared Judge Hamilton.

"I can only think of one answer," offered Channing in a low voice.
"We made the power supplies out of power and voltage transducers
and filtered the output for sixty cycles. Buffalo is still using
twenty-five-cycle current. Since the reactances of both capacity and
inductance vary according to the--"

"Enough of this!" roared Hamilton. "I--No, I may not say it. I am on
the bench and what I am thinking would bring impeachment. Proceed
Attorney Kingman."

Kingman took the cue, and before anyone realized that it was still
Tinkin's floor, he opened.

"Dr. Channing, you can send a gallon of gasoline through this, ah,
so-called matter transmitter?"

"Naturally."

"Then, your honor, it is my contention that no matter what the means
or the intent, this instrument utilizes the sub-etheric effects
to transmit energy! It is seldom possible to transmit power over
the same carriers that carry communications--only very specialized
cases prevail, and they are converted to the job. But this thing is
universal. Perhaps it does transmit intelligence. It will and can be
used to transmit energy! Matter, your honor, is energy! That, even the
learned opponent will admit. We have our own means of transmitting
power--this is another--and no matter what is intended, power and
energy will be transmitted over its instruments.

"Since this machine transmits energy, I ask that you rule that it fall
under that classification. I rest my case."

Hamilton nodded grumly. Then he fixed Tinkin with an ice-cold stare.
"Have you anything to offer that may possibly be of any interest to me?"

Tinkin shook his head. He was still stunned.

"I shall deliver my ruling in the morning. I am overwrought and must
rest. Adjourned until tomorrow morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

The only sounds in the room were the tinkle of glassware and the
occasional moan of utter self-dislike. Channing sat with his glass in
his hand and made faces as he lifted it. Franks matched his mood. Both
of them were of the type that drinks only when feeling good because
it made them feel better. When they drank while feeling low, it made
them feel lower, and at the present time they were about as far down
as they could get. They knew it; they took the liquor more as a local
anaesthetic than anything else. Arden, whose disappointment was not
quite as personal as theirs, was not following them drink for drink,
but she knew how they felt and was busying herself with glass, ice, and
bottle as they needed it.

It was hours since the final let-down in the court. They knew that they
could appeal the case, and probably after a hard fight they would win.
It might be a year or so before they did, and in the meantime they
would lose the initial control over the matter transmitter. They both
felt that having the initial introduction in their hands would mean
less headache than having Terran Electric exploit the thing to the
bitter end as quickly as possible.

The fact of sunrise--something they never saw on Venus Equilateral--did
not interest them one bit. It grew light outside, and as the first
glimmerings of sunrise came, a knock on their door came also.

"Mice," hissed Walt.

"S'nock on door."

"Mice knocking on door?"

"Naw."

"Mice gnawing on door?"

"It's Wes Farrell," announced Arden, opening the door.

"Let'm in. S'all right, Wes. Anyone c'n make mishtake."

"He's sober."

"Gettum drink," said Don. "Gettum drink--gettum drunk."

"Look, fellows, I'm sorry about that fool mistake. I've been working
on the judge's ticker. I've fixed it."

"Fitched it?" asked Walt, opening his eyes wide.

"Close 'em--Y'll bleed t' death," gurgled Don.

Farrell dangled the judge's watch before them. It was perfect. It
ticked, it ran, and though they couldn't possibly have seen the hands
from a distance of more than nine inches, it was keeping perfect time.

Don shook his head, moaned at the results of the shaking, put both
hands on his head to hold it down, and looked again. "How'ja do it?"

"Made a recording of the transmitted signal. Fixed the power-supply
filters first. Then took the recording--"

"On whut?" spluttered Walt.

"On a disk like the alloy-tuners in the communications beams. Worked
fine. Anyway, I recorded the signal, and then started to buck out the
ripple by adding some out-of-phase hum to cancel the ripple."

"Shounds reas'n'ble."

"Worked. I had a couple of messes, though."

"Messessesesss?" hissed Walt, losing control over his tongue.

"Yes. Had a bit of trouble making the ripple match." Farrell pulled
several watches from his pocket. "This one added ripple. It's quite
cockeyed. This one had cross-ripple and it's really a mess. It sort of
looks like you feel, Walt. I've got 'em with double ripples, triple
ripples, phase distortion, over-correction, and one that reminds me of
a pancake run through a frilling machine."

Channing looked at the collection of scrambled watches and shuddered.
"Take'm away--_brrrrrr_."

Arden covered the uninspiring things with a tablecloth.

"Thanks," said Don.

"Do you think the judge'll forgive us?" asked Farrell.

"Don't say it," said Walt, bursting with laughter.

"I don't have to," chortled Don.

"They're both hysterical," explained Arden.

"Carbogen and Turkish bath," said Don. "And quick! Arden, call us a
taxi."

"You're both taxis," giggled Arden. "O.K., fellows. Can do." She went
to the phone and started to call.

Farrell looked uncomprehendingly at Walt and then at Don, and shook his
head. "Mind telling me?" he pleaded.

"Wes, you're a million!" roared Channing, rolling on the floor.

Farrell turned to Arden.

"Let them alone," she said. "Something probably pleases them highly.
We'll find out later--Yes? Operator? Will you call a cab for Room 719?
Thanks."

       *       *       *       *       *

Attorney Tinkin faced Judge Hamilton with a slight smile. "Prior
to your ruling, I wish to present you with your watch. Also I ask
permission to sum up my case--an act which I was unprepared to do last
evening."

Hamilton reached for the watch, but Tinkin kept it.

"You may state your case--but it will make little difference in my
ruling unless you can offer better evidence than your opponent."

"Thank you," said Tinkin. He made a show of winding the watch, and
he set it accurately to the court clock on the wall. "Your honor, a
telegram is a message. It requires energy for transmission. A letter
also requires energy for carrying and delivery. A spacegram requires
the expenditure of great energy to get the message across. The case in
hand is this: If the energy is expended in maintaining the contact,
then communications are involved. But when the energy is expected to
be used on the other side--and the energies transmitted are far above
and beyond those necessary for mere maintenance of contact, it then
may be construed that not the contact but the transmittal of energy is
desired, and power transmission is in force."

Tinkin swung Hamilton's watch by the chain.

"The matter of sending flowers by telegram is not a matter of taking
a bouquet to the office and having the items sent by electricity to
Northern Landing. A message is sent--an order to ship or deliver.
It makes no difference whether the order be given in person or sent
by spacegram. It is a communication that counts. In this device, a
communication is sent which directs the device to produce a replica
of the transmitted object. Ergo it must fall under the realm of
communications. I will now demonstrate this effect, and also one other
effect which is similar to telegraphic communications."

Tinkin ignored Hamilton's outstretched hand, and put the watch in the
cabinet. Hamilton roared, but Tinkin held up a hand to stop him. "I
assure you that this will cause no ill effects. We have repaired the
damage."

"For every minute of delay between now and the moment I receive my
watch, I shall fine you one hundred dollars for contempt of court."

"Well worth it," smiled Tinkin.

Channing pressed the switch.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Click!_ went the receiver, and from a slide, Channing removed the
judge's watch. With a flourish, he started it, and handed it to the
judge, who glared.

"Now," added Tinkin, "I wish to add--

_Click!_

"--two objects may be similar in form--

_Click!_

"--but can not be identities!

_Click!_

"However, two communications--

_Click!_

"--may be dissimilar in form--

_Click!_

"--but identical in meaning!

_Click!_

"We have before us--

_Click!_

"--a condition where--

_Click!_

"--identical messages are--

_Click!_

"--being reproduced in identical form--

_Click!_

"--just like a bunch of--

_Click!_

"--carbon copies!"

_Click!_

"The production rate of which--

_Click!_

"--will be high enough--

_Click!_

"--to lower the cost--

_Click!_

"--of this previously rare item--

_Click!_

"--until it is well within the reach of all."

_Click!_

"Just as in communications--

_Click!_

"--we may send an order--

_Click!_

"--directing the fabrication--

_Click!_

"--of several hundred similar items!

_Click!_

"And our supplier will bill us--

_Click!_

"--for them later!"

_Brrr-rup!_

"That last buzz or burp was a signal that we have reached the end of
our matter bank. Our credit, for example, has run out. However, Dr.
Channing is about to make a substantial deposit with the manufacturer,
and we will resume operations later. I ask you--

_Click!_

"--can you do this with energy?"

_Click!_

"Stop that infernal--

_Click!_

"--machine before I have you all held for disrespect, perjury, contempt
of court, and grand larceny!" yelled the judge.

Channing stopped the machine and started to hand out the carbon-copy
watches to the audience, who received them with much glee. Kingman came
to life at this point. He rose from his chair and started to object,
but he was stopped by Tinkin who leaned over and whispered:

"My worthy and no doubt learned opponent, I'd advise that you keep your
magnificent oratory buttoned tight in those flapping front teeth of
yours. If we all get into that gadget--how would you like to fight ten
or twelve of us?"


                               THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPECIAL DELIVERY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
