The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Long Way, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Long Way

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: May 6, 2022 [eBook #68003]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LONG WAY ***





                             The Long Way

                          By GEORGE O. SMITH

                         Illustrated by Kramer

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Astounding Science-Fiction, April 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Don Channing stood back and admired his latest acquisition with all of
the fervency of a high school girl inspecting her first party dress.
It was so apparent, this affection between man and gadget, that the
workmen who were now carrying off the remnants of the packing case did
so from the far side of the bench so that they would not come between
the director of communications and the object of his affection. So
intent was Channing in his adoration of the object that he did not
hear the door open, nor the click of high heels against the plastic
flooring. He was completely unaware of his surroundings until Arden
said:

"Don, what off earth is that?"

"Ain't she a beaut?" breathed Channing.

"Jilted for a jimcrank," groaned Arden. "Tell me, my quondam husband,
what is it?"

"Huh?" asked Don, coming to life once more.

"In plain, unvarnished words of one cylinder, what is that ... that,
_that_?"

"Oh, you mean the transmission tube?"

"How do you do?" said Arden to the big tube. "Funny-looking thing, not
like any transmitting tube I've ever seen before."

"Not a transmitting tube," explained Channing. "It is one of those
power transmission tubes that Baler and Carroll found on the Martian
desert."

"I presume that is why the etch says: 'Made by Terran Electric,
Chicago'?"

Channing laughed. "Not one found--there was only one found. This is a
carbon copy. They are going to revolutionize the transmission of power
with 'em."

"Funny-looking gadget."

"Not so funny. Just alien."

"Know anything about it?"

"Not too much. But I've got Barney Carroll coming out here and a couple
of guys from Terran Electric. I'm going to strain myself to keep from
tinkering with the thing until they get here."

"Can't you go ahead? It's not like you to wait."

"I know," said Channing. "But the Terran Electric boys have sewed up
the rights to this dinkus so tight that it is squeaking. Seems to be
some objection to working on them in the absence of their men."

"Why?"

"Probably because Terran Electric knows a good thing when they see
it. Barney's latest 'gram said that they were very reluctant to rent
this tube to us. Legally they couldn't refuse, but they know darned
well that we're not going to run power in here from Terra--or anywhere
else. They know we want it for experimentation, and they feel that it
is their tube and that if any experimentation is going to take place,
they're going to do it."

The workmen returned with two smaller cases; one of each they placed on
benches to either side of the big tube. They knocked the boxes apart
and there emerged two smaller editions of the center tube--and even
Arden could see that these two were quite like the forward half and the
latter half, respectively, of the larger tube.

"Did you buy 'em out?" she asked.

"No," said Don simply. "This merely makes a complete circuit."

"Explain that one, please."

"Sure. This one on the left is the input-terminal tube which they call
the power-end. The good old D. C. goes in across these two terminals.
It emerges from the big end, here, and bats across in a beam of
intangible something-or-other until it gets to the relay tube where
it is once more tossed across to the load-end tube. The power is
taken from these terminals on the back end of the load-end tube and
is then suitable for running motors, refrigerators, and so on. The
total line-loss is slightly more than the old-fashioned transmission
line. The cathode-dynode requires replacement about once a year. The
advantages over high-tension wires are many; in spite of the slightly
higher line-losses and the replacement trick, they are replacing
long-lines everywhere.

"When they're properly aligned, they will scat right through a mountain
of solid iron without attenuation. It takes one tower every hundred
and seventy miles, and the only restriction on tower height is that
the tube must be above ground by ten to one the distance that could be
flashed over under high intensity ultraviolet light."

"That isn't clear to me."

"Well, high-tension juice will flash over better under ultraviolet
illumination. The tube must be high enough to exceed this distance
by ten to one at the operating voltage of the stuff down the line.
Another thing, the darned beam can be made to curve by adjusting the
beam plates in the tube. The boys in the Palanortis Jungles say they're
a godsend, since there are a lot of places where the high-tension
towers would be impossible since the Palanortis Whitewood grows about a
thousand feet tall."

"You'd cut a lot of wood to ream a path through from Northern Landing
to the power station on the Boiling River," said Arden.

"Yeah," drawled Don, "and towers a couple of hundred miles apart are
better than two thousand feet. Yeah, these things are the nuts for
getting power shipped across country."

"Couldn't we squirt it out from Terra?" asked Arden. "That would take
the curse off of our operating expenses."

"It sure would," agreed Channing heartily. "But think of the trouble
in aligning a beam of that distance. I don't know--there's this two
hundred mile restriction, you know. They don't transmit worth a hoot
over that distance, and it would be utterly impossible to maintain
stations in space a couple of hundred miles apart, even from Venus,
from which we maintain a fairly close tolerance. We might try a hooting
big one, but the trouble is that misalignment of the things results in
terrible effects."

       *       *       *       *       *

The door opened and Charley Thomas and Walt Franks entered.

"How's our playthings?" asked Walt.

"Cockeyed looking gadgets," commented Charley.

"Take a good look at 'em," said Channing. "Might make some working
X-ray plates, too. It was a lucky day that these got here before the
boys from Terran Electric. I doubt that they'd permit that."

"O.K.," said Charley. "I'll bring the X-ray up here and make some
pix. You'll want working prints; Walton will have to take 'em and hang
dimensions on to fit."

"And we," said Channing to Walt Franks, "will go to our respective
offices and wait until the Terran Electric representatives get here."

The ship that came with the tubes took off from the landing stage, and
as it passed their observation dome, it caught Don's eye. "There goes
our project for the week," he said.

"Huh?" asked Walt.

"He's been like that ever since we tracked him down with the _Relay
Girl_," said Arden.

"I mean the detection of driver radiation," said Channing.

"Project for the week?" asked Walt. "Brother, we've been tinkering with
that idea for months, now."

"Well," said Don, "there goes four drivers, all batting out umpty-ump
begawatts of something. They can hang a couple of G on a six-hundred
foot hull for hours and hours. The radiation they emit must be
detectable; don't tell me that such power is not."

"The interplanetary companies have been tinkering with drivers for
years and years," said Walt. "They have never detected it?"

"Could be, but there are a couple of facts that I'd like to point
out. One is that they're not interested in detection. They only want
the best in driver efficiency. Another thing is that the radiation
from the drivers is sufficient to ionize atmosphere into a dull red
glow that persists for several minutes. Next item is the fact that
we on Venus Equilateral should be able to invent a detector; we've
been tinkering with detectors long enough. Oh, I'll admit that it is
secondary-electronics--"

"Huh? That's a new one on me."

"It isn't electronics," said Channing. "It's subetheric or something
like that. We'll call it sub-electronics for lack of anything else. But
we should be able to detect it somehow."

"Suppose there is nothing to detect?"

"That smacks of one hundred percent efficiency," laughed Don.
"Impossible."

"How about an electric heater?" asked Arden.

"Oh Lord, Arden, an electric heater is the most ineffic--"

"Is it?" interrupted Arden with a smile. "What happens to radiation
when intercepted?"

"Turns to heat, of course."

"That takes care of the radiation output," said Arden. "Now, how about
electrical losses?"

"Also heat."

"Then everything that goes into an electric heater emerges as heat,"
said Arden.

"I get it," laughed Walt. "Efficiency depends upon what you hope to
get. If what you're wanting is losses, anything that is a total loss is
one hundred percent efficient. Set your machine up to waste power and
it becomes one hundred percent efficient as long as there is nothing
coming from the machine that doesn't count as waste."

"Fine point for argument," smiled Channing. "But anything that will
make atmosphere glow that dull red after the passage of a ship will
have enough waste to detect. Don't tell me that the red glow enhances
the drive."

The door opened again and Charley came in with a crew of men. They
ignored the three, and started to hang heavy cloth around the walls and
ceiling. Charley watched the installation of the barrier-cloth and then
said: "Beat it--if you want any young Channings!"

Arden, at least, had the grace to blush.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tall, slender man handed Don an envelope full of credentials. "I'm
Wesley Farrell," he said. "Glad to have a chance to work out here with
you fellows."

"Glad to have you," said Don. He looked at the other man.

"This is Mark Kingman."

"How do you do?" said Channing. Kingman did not impress Channing as
being a person whose presence in a gathering would be demanded with
gracious shouts of glee.

"Mr. Kingman is an attorney for Terran Electric," explained Wesley.

Kingman's pedestal was lowered by Channing.

"My purpose," said Kingman, "is to represent my company's interest in
the transmission tube."

"In what way?" asked Don.

"Messrs. Baler and Carroll sold their discovery to Terran Electric
outright. We have an iron-bound patent on the device and/or any
developments of the device. We hold absolute control over the
transmission tube, and therefore may dictate all terms on which it is
to be used."

"I understand. You know, of course, that our interest in the
transmission tube is purely academic."

"I have been told that. We're not too certain that we approve. Our
laboratories are capable of any investigation you may desire, and we
prefer that such investigations be conducted under our supervision."

"We are not going to encroach on your power rights," explained Channing.

"Naturally," said Kingman in a parsimonious manner. "But should you
develop a new use for the device, we shall have to demand that we have
complete rights."

"Isn't that a bit high-handed?" asked Don.

"We think not. It is our right."

"You're trained technically?" asked Don.

"Not at all. I am a lawyer, not an engineer. Mr. Farrell will take care
of the technical aspects of the device."

"And in looking out for your interests, what will you require?"

"Daily reports from your group. Daily conferences with your legal
department. These reports should be prepared prior to the day's work
so that I may discuss with the legal department the right of Terran
Electric to permit or to disapprove the acts."

"You understand that there may be a lot of times when something
discovered at ten o'clock may change the entire program by ten oh six?"

"That may be," said Kingman, "but my original statements must be
adhered to, otherwise I am authorized to remove the devices from your
possession. I will go this far, however; if you discover something that
will change your program for the day, I will then call an immediate
conference which should hurry your program instead of waiting until the
following morning for the decision."

"Thanks," said Channing dryly. "First, may we take X-ray prints of the
devices?"

"No. Terran Electric will furnish you with blueprints which we consider
suitable." Kingman paused for a moment. "I shall expect the complete
program of tomorrow's experiments by five o'clock this evening."

Kingman left, and Wes Farrell smiled uncertainly. "Shall we begin
making the list?"

"Might as well," said Channing. "But, how do you lay out a complete
experimental program for twelve hours ahead?"

"It's a new one on me, too," said Farrell.

"Well, come on. I'll get Walt Franks, and we'll begin."

"I wonder if it might not be desirable for Kingman to sit in on these
program-settings?" said Channing, after a moment of staring at the page
before him.

"I suggested that to him. He said 'No'. He prefers his information in
writing."

Walt came in on the last words. Channing brought Franks up to date and
Walt said: "But why would he want a written program if he's going to
disallow certain ideas?"

"Sounds to me like he's perfectly willing to let us suggest certain
lines of endeavor; he may decide that they look good enough to have the
Terran Electric labs try themselves," said Channing.

Wes Farrell looked uncomfortable.

"I have half a notion to toss him out," Channing told Farrell. "I also
have half a notion to make miniatures of this tube and go ahead and
work regardless of Kingman or Terran Electric. O.K., Wes, we won't do
anything illegal. We'll begin by making our list."

"What is your intention?" asked Wes.

"We hope that these tubes will enable us to detect driver radiation,
which will ultimately permit us to open ship-to-ship two-way
communication."

"May I ask how you hope to do this?"

"Sure. We're going to cut and try. No one knows a thing about the
level of driver-energy; we've assigned a selected name for it:
Subelectronics. The driver tube is akin to this transmission tube, if
what I've been able to collect on the subject is authentic. By using
the transmission tube--"

"Your belief is interesting. I've failed to see any connection between
our tube and the driver tube."

"Oh sure," said Channing expansively. "I'll admit that the similarity
is of the same order as the similarity between an incandescent lamp
and a ten dynode, electron-multiplier such as we use in our final beam
stages. But recall this business of the cathode-dynode. In both, the
emitting surface is bombarded by electrons from electron guns. They
both require changing."

"I know that, but the driver cathode disintegrates at a rate of loss
that is terrific compared to the loss of emitting surface in the
transmission tube."

"The driver cathode is worth about two hundred G-hours. But remember,
there is no input to the driver such as you have in the transmission
tube. The power from the driver comes from the disintegration of the
cathode surface--there isn't a ten thousandth of an inch of plating
on the inside of the tube to show where it went. But the transmission
tube has an input and the tube itself merely transduces this power to
some level of radiation for transmission. It is re-transduced again
for use. But the thing is this: Your tube is the only thing we know of
that will accept subelectronic energy and use it. If the driver and the
transmission tubes are similar in operational spectrum, we may be able
to detect driver radiation by some modification."

"That sounds interesting," said Wes. "I'll be darned glad to give you a
lift."

"Isn't that beyond your job?" asked Channing.

"Yeah," drawled Farrell, "but could you stand by and watch me work on a
beam transmitter?"

"No--"

"Then don't expect me to watch without getting my fingers dirty," said
Farrell cheerfully. "Sitting around in a place like this would drive me
nuts without something to do."

"O.K., then," smiled Don. "We'll start off by building about a dozen
miniatures. We'll make 'em about six inches long--we're not going to
handle much power, you know. That's first."

Kingman viewed the list with distaste. "There are a number of items
here which I may not allow," he said.

"For instance?" asked Channing with lifted eyebrows.

"One, the manufacture or fabrication of power transmission tubes by
anyone except Terran Electric is forbidden. Two, your purpose in
wanting to make tubes is not clearly set forth. Three, the circuits in
which you intend to use these tubes is unorthodox, and must be clearly
and fully drawn and listed."

"Oh spinach! How can we list and draw a circuit that is still in the
embryonic stage?"

"Then clarify it. Until then I shall withhold permission."

"But look, Mr. Kingman, we're going to develop this circuit as we go
along."

"You mean that you are going to fumble your way through this
investigation?"

"We do not consider a cut-and-try program as fumbling," said Walt
Franks.

"I am beginning to believe that your research department has not the
ability to reduce your problems to a precise science," said Kingman
scornfully.

"Name me a precise science," snapped Channing, "or even a precise art!"

"The legal trade is as precise as any. Everything we do is done
according to legal precedent."

"I see. And when there is no precedent?"

"Then we all decide upon the proper course, and establish a precedent."

"But I've got to show you a complete circuit before you'll permit me to
go ahead?"

"That's not all. Your program must not include reproducing these tubes
either in miniature or full size--or larger. Give me your requirements
and I shall request Terran Electric to perform the fabrication--"

"Look, Kingman, Venus Equilateral has facilities to build as good a
tube as Terran Electric. I might even say better, since our business
includes the use, maintenance, and development of radio tubes; your
tubes are not too different from ours. Plus the fact that we can whack
out six in one day, whilst it will take seventy-three hours to get 'em
here after they're built on Terra."

"I'm sorry, but the legal meaning of the patent is clear. Where is your
legal department?"

"We have three. One on each of the Inner Planets."

"I'll request you to have a legal representative come to the Station so
that I may confer with him. One with power of attorney to act for you."

"Sorry," said Channing coldly. "I wouldn't permit any attorney to act
without my supervision."

"That's rather a backward attitude," said Kingman. "I shall still
insist on conducting my business with one of legal mind."

"O.K. We'll have Peterman come out from Terra. But he'll still be
under my supervision."

"As you wish. I may still exert my prerogative and remove the tubes
from your possession."

"You may find that hard to do," said Channing.

"That's illegal!"

"Oh no, it won't be. You may enter the laboratory at any time and
remove the tubes. Of course, if you are without technical training you
may find it most difficult to disconnect the tubes without getting
across a few thousand volts. That might be uncomfortable."

"Are you threatening me?" said Kingman, bristling. His stocky frame
didn't take to bristling very well, and he lost considerable prestige
in the act.

"Not at all. I'm just issuing a fair warning that the signs that say:
DANGER! HIGH VOLTAGE! are not there for appearance."

"Sounds like a threat to me."

"Have I threatened you? It sounds to me as though I were more than
anxious for your welfare. Any threat of which you speak is utterly
without grounds, and is a figment of your imagination; based upon
distrust of the Interplanetary Communications Company, and the
personnel of the Venus Equilateral Relay Station."

Kingman shut up. He went down the list, marking off items here and
there. While he was marking, Channing scribbled a circuit and listed
the parts. He handed it over as Kingman finished.

"This is your circuit?" asked the lawyer skeptically.

"Yes."

"I shall have to ask for an explanation of the symbols involved."

"I shall be happy to present you with a book on essential radio
technique," offered Channing. "A perusal of which will place you in
possession of considerable knowledge. Will that suffice?"

"I believe so. I can not understand how; being uncertain of your steps
a few minutes ago, you are now presenting me with a circuit of your
intended experiment."

"The circuit is, of course, merely symbolic. We shall change many of
the constants before the day is over--in fact, we may even change the
circuit."

"IT shall require a notice before each change so that I may pass upon
the legal aspects."

"Walt," said Don, "will you accompany me to a transparency experiment
on the Ninth Level?"

"Be more than glad to," said Walt. "Let's go!"

They left the office quickly, and started for Joe's. They had not
reached the combined liquor-vending and restaurant establishment when
the communicator called for Channing. It was announcing the arrival
of Barney Carroll, so instead of heading for Joe's, they went to the
landing stage at the south end of the Station to greet the visitor.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Barney," said Don, "of all the companies, why did you pick on Terran
Electric?"

"Gave us the best deal," said the huge, grinning man.

"Yeah, and they're getting the best of my goat right now."

"Well, Jim and I couldn't handle anything as big as the power
transmission set-up. They paid out a large slice of jack for the
complete rights. All of us are well paid now. After all, I'm primarily
interested in Martian artifacts, you know."

"I wonder if they had lawyers," smiled Walt wryly.

"Probably. And, no doubt, the legals had a lot to do with the fall of
the Martian Civilization."

"As it will probably get this one so bound up with red tape that
progress will be impossible--or impractical."

"Well, Barney, let's take a run up to the lab. We can make paper-talk
even if Brother Kingman won't let us set it to soldering iron. There
are a lot of things I want to ask you about the tube."

They sat around a drawing table and Channing began to sketch. "What
I'd hoped to do is this," he said, drawing a schematic diagram. "We're
not interested in power transmission, but your gadget will do a bit
of voltage amplification because of its utter indifference to the
power-line problem of impedance matching. We can take a relay tube
and put in ten watts, say, across ten thousand ohms. That means the
input will be somewhat above three hundred volts. Now, if our output
is raced across a hundred thousand ohms, ten watts will give us one
thousand volts. So we can get voltage amplification at the expense of
current--which we will not need. Unfortunately, the relay tube as
well as the rest of the system will give out with the same kind of
power that it is impressed with--so we'll have amplification of driver
radiation. Then we'll need a detector. We haven't been able to get
either yet, but this is a start, providing that Terran Electric will
permit us to take a deep breath without wanting to pass on it."

"I think you may be able to get amplification," said Barney. "But to do
it, you'll have to detect it first."

"Huh?"

"Sure. Before these darned things will work, this in-phase anode must
be right on the beam. That means that you'll require a feed-back
circuit from the final stage to feed the in-phase anodes. Could be done
without detection, I suppose."

"Well, for one thing, we're going to get some amplification if we
change the primary anode--so. That won't permit the thing to handle any
power, but it will isolate the output from the input and permit more
amplification. Follow?"

"Can we try it?"

"As soon as I get Terran Electric's permission."

"Here we go again!" groaned Walt.

"Yeah," said Don to Barney, "now you'll see the kind of birds you sold
your gadget to."

They found Kingman and Farrell in conference. Channing offered his
suggestion immediately, and Kingman looked it over, shaking his head.

"It is not permitted to alter, change, rework, or repair tubes owned by
Terran Electric," he said.

"What are we permitted to do?" asked Channing.

"Give me your recommendation and I shall have the shop at Terran
Electric perform the operation."

"At cost?"

"Cost plus a slight profit. Terran Electric, just as Communications, is
not in business from an altruistic standpoint."

"I see."

"Also," said Kingman severely, "I noticed one of your men changing the
circuit slightly without permission. Why?"

"Who was it?"

"The man known as Thomas."

"Charley Thomas is in charge of development work," said Channing. "He
probably noticed some slight effect that he wanted to check."

"He should have notified me first--I don't care how minute the change.
I must pass on changes first."

"But you wouldn't know their worth," objected Barney.

"No, but Mr. Farrell does, and will so advise me."

Wes looked at Channing. "Have you been to the Ninth Level yet?"

"Nope," said Channing.

"May I accompany you?"

Channing looked at Farrell critically. The Terran Electric engineer
seemed sincere, and the pained expression on his face looked like
frustrated sympathy to Don. "Come along," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Barney smiled cheerfully at the sign on Joe's door. "That's a good
one, 'Best Bar in Twenty-seven Million Miles, Minimum!' What's the
qualification for?"

"That's about as close as Terra gets. Most of the time the nearest bar
is at Northern Landing, Venus; sixty-seven million miles from here.
Come on in and we'll get plastered."

Farrell said: "Look, fellows, I know how you feel. They didn't tell me
that you weren't going to be given permission to work. I understood
that I was to sort of walk along, offer suggestions, and sort of
prepare myself to take over some research myself. This is sickening."

"I think you mean that."

"May I use your telephone. I want to resign."

"Wait a minute. If you're that sincere, why don't we outguess 'em?"

"Could do," said Wes. "How?"

"Is there any reason why we can't take a poke to Sol himself?"

"You mean haul power out of the sun?"

"That's the general idea. Barney, what do you think?"

"Could be--but it would take a redesign."

"Fine. And may we pray that the redesign is good enough to make a
difference to the Interplanetary Patent Office." Channing called Joe.
"The same. Three Moons all around. Scotch," he explained to the
others, "synthesized in the Palanortis Country."

"Our favorite import," said Walt.

Joe grinned. "Another tablecloth session in progress?"

"Could be. As soon as we oil the think-tank, we'll know for sure."

"What does he mean?" asked Barney.

Joe smiled. "They all have laboratories and draftsmen and textbooks,"
he said. "But for real engineering, they use my tablecloths. Three more
problems and I'll have a complete tablecloth course in astrophysics,
with a sideling in cartooning, and a minor degree in mechanical
engineering."

"Oh?"

"Sure. Give 'em free hand, and a couple of your tubes and a tablecloth
and they'll have 'em frying eggs by morning. When I came out here, they
demanded a commercial bond and I thought they were nuts. Who ever heard
of making a restaurateur post a bond? I discovered that all of their
inventions are initially tinkered out right here in the dining room--I
could steal 'em blind if I were dishonest!" Joe smiled hugely. "This is
the only place in the system where the tablecloths have been through
blueprint machines. That," he said confidentially to Barney, "is why
some of the stuff is slightly garbled. Scotch mixed with the drawings.
They have the cloths inspected by the engineering department before
they're laundered; I lose a lot of tablecloths that way."

Joe left cheerfully amid laughter.

The Three Moons came next, and then Don began to sketch. "Suppose we
make a driver tube like this," he said. "And we couple the top end,
where the cathode is to the input side of the relay tube. Only the
input side will require a variable-impedance anode, coupled back from
the cathode to limit the input to the required value. Then the coupling
anodes must be served with an automatic-coupling circuit so that the
limiting power is passed without wastage."

Barney pulled out a pencil. "If you make that automatic-coupling
circuit dependent upon the output from the terminal ends," he said,
"it will accept only the amount of input that is required by the power
being used from the output. Over-cooling these two anodes will inhibit
the power-intake."

"Right," said Wes. "And I am of the opinion that the power available
from Sol is of a magnitude that will permit operation over and above
the limit."

"Four million tons of energy per second!" exploded Walt. "That's
playing with fire!"

"You bet. We'll fix 'em with that!"

"Our experience with relay tubes," said Farrell slowly, "indicates that
some increase in range is possible with additional anode-focusing.
Build your tube-top with an extra set of anodes, and that'll give us
better control of the beam."

"We're getting farther and farther from the subject of communication,"
said Channing with a smile. "But I think that we'll get more out of
this."

"How so?"

"Until we get a chance to tinker with those tubes, we won't get
ship-to-ship two ways. So we'll gadgeteer up something that will make
Terran Electric foam at the mouth, and swap a hunk of it for full
freedom in our investigations. Or should we bust Terran Electric
wholeheartedly?"

"Let's slug 'em," said Walt.

"Go ahead," said Wes. "I'm utterly disgusted, though I think our
trouble is due to the management of Terran Electric. They like legal
tangles too much."

"We'll give 'em a legal tangle," said Barney. He was adding circuits to
the tablecloth sketch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Channing, on his side, was sketching in some equations, and Walt was
working out some mechanical details. Joe came over, looked at the
tablecloth, and forthright went to the telephone and called Walton. The
mechanical designer came, and Channing looked up in surprise. "Hi," he
said. "I was about to call you."

"Joe did."

"O.K. Look, Ted, can you fake us up a gadget like this?"

Walton looked the thing over. "Give me about ten hours," he said.

"We've got a spare turnover driver from the _Relay Girl_ that we can
hand-carve. There are a couple of water-boilers that we can strip, cut
open, and make to serve as the top end. How're you hoping to maintain
the vacuum?"

"Yes," said Wes Farrell, "That's going to be the problem. If there's
any adjusting of electrodes to do, this'll take months."

"That's why we, on Venus Equilateral, are ahead of the whole
ding-busted solar system in tube development," said Don. "We'll run the
thing out in the open--and I _do_ mean open! Instead of the tube having
the insides exhausted, the operators will have their envelopes served
with fresh, canned air."

"Like a cartoon I saw somewhere," grinned Walt. "Had a bird in full
armor tinkering with a radio set. The caption was: 'Why shield the
set!'"

"Phooey," said Ted Walton, "Look, Tom Swift, is this another one of the
Franks' brainchildren?"

"Tom Swift?" asked Wes.

"Yeah. That's the nom de plume he invents under. The other guy we call
Captain Lightning."

"Oh?" asked Farrell, "Do you read him, too?"

"Sure," grinned Walton. "And say, speaking of comics, I came upon an
old, old volume of Webster's International Dictionary in a rare-edition
library a couple of months ago in Chicago, and they define 'Comic' as
amusing, funny, and ludicrous; not imaginative fiction. How things
change."

"They do."

"But to get back to this gold-berg, what is it?"

"Ted," said Channing soberly, "sit down!" Walton did. "Now," grinned
Channing, "this screwball gadget is an idea whereby we hope to draw
power out of the sun."

Walton swallowed once, and then waved for Joe. "Double," he told the
restaurateur. Then to the others he said, "Thanks for seating me. I'm
ill, I think. Hearing things. I could swear I heard someone say that
this thing is to take power from Sol."

"That's it."

"Um-m-m. Remind me to quit Saturday. This is no job for a man beset by
hallucinations."

"You grinning idiot, we're not fooling."

"Then you'd better quit," Walton told Don. "This is no job for a bird
with delusions of grandeur, either. Look, Don, you'll want this in the
experimental blister at South end? On a coupler to the beam-turret so
that it'll maintain direction at Sol?"

"Right. Couple it to the rotating stage if you can. Remember, that's
three miles from the South end."

"We've still got a few high-power selsyns," said Walton, making some
notations of his own on the tablecloth. "And thanks to the guys who
laid out this Station some years ago, we've plenty of unused circuits
from one end to the other. We'll couple it, all right. Oh mother. Seems
to me like you got a long way off of your intended subject. Didn't you
start out to make a detector for driver radiation?"

"Yup."

"And you end up tapping the sun. D'ye think it'll ever replace slave
labor?"

"Could be. Might even replace the coal mine. That's to be seen. Have
any idea of how long you'll be?"

"Make it ten hours. I'll get the whole crew on it at once."

"Fine."

"But look. What's the reason for this change in program?"

"That's easy," said Don. "First, we had a jam session. Second, we've
come to the conclusion that the longest way around is often the
shortest way home. We're now in the throes of building something with
which to dazzle the bright-minded management of Terran Electric and
thus make them susceptible to our charm. We want a free hand at the
transmission tubes, and this looks like a fair bit of bait."

"I get it. Quote: 'Why buy power from Terran Electric? Hang a Channing
Power Beam on your chimney pot and tap the sun!' Whoa, Maizie. Bring
on the needle, Watson. Hang out the flags, fire the cannon, ring the
bells; for Venus Equilateral is about to hang a pipeline right into
four million tons of energy per second! Don, that's a right, smart bit
of power to doodle with. Can you handle it?"

"Sure," said Channing with a wave of his hand, "we'll hang a fuse in
the line!"

"O.K.," said Walton, sweeping the tablecloth off the table like Mysto,
the Magician; right out from under the glasses, "I'll be back--wearing
my asbestos pants!"

Wes Farrell looked dreamily at the ceiling. "This _is_ a screwy joint,"
he said idly. "What do we do for the next ten hours?"

"Red Herring stuff," said Channing with what he hoped was a
Machiavellian leer.

"Such as?"

"Making wise moves with the transmission tubes. Glomming the
barrister's desk with proposed ideas for his approval; as many as
we can think of so that he'll be kept busy. We might even think of
something that may work, meanwhile. Come, fellow conspirators, to
horse!" Channing picked up his glass and drained it, making a wry face.
"Rotten stuff--I wish I had a barrel of it!"

Channing surveyed the set-up in the blister. He inspected it carefully,
as did the others. When he spoke, his voice came through the helmet
receivers with a slightly tinny sound: "Anything wrong? Looks O.K. to
me."

"O.K. by me, too," said Farrell.

"Working in suit is not the best," said Don. "Barney, you're the
bright-eyed lad, can you align the plates?"

"I think so," came the muffled booming of Barney's powerful voice.
"Gimme screwdriver!"

Barney fiddled with the plate-controls for several minutes. "She's
running on dead center alignment, now," he announced.

"Question," put in Wes, "do we get power immediately, or must we wait
whilst the beam gets there and returns?"

"You must run your power line before you get power," said Walt. "My
money is on the wait."

"Don't crack your anode-coupling circuit until then," warned Wes.
"We don't know a thing about this; I'd prefer to let it in easy-like
instead of opening the gate and letting the whole four million tons per
second come roaring in through this ammeter."

"Might be a little warm having Sol in here with us," laughed Channing.
"This is once in my life when we don't need a milliammeter, but a
million-ammeter!"

"Shall we assign a pseudonym for it?" chuckled Walt.

"Let's wait until we see how it works."

The minutes passed slowly, and then Wes announced: "She should be
here. Crack your anode-coupler, Barney."

Barney advanced the dial, gingerly. The air that could have grown
tense was, of course, not present in the blister. But the term is but
a figure of speech, and therefore it may be proper to say that the air
grew tense. Fact is, it was the nerves of the men that grew tense.
Higher and higher went the dial, and still the meter stayed inert
against the zero-end pin.

"Not a wiggle," said Barney in disgust. He twirled the dial all the way
around, and snorted. The meter left the zero pin ever so slightly.

Channing turned the switch that increased the sensitivity of the meter
until the needle stood halfway up the scale.

"Solar power, here we come," he said in a dry voice. "One half ampere
at seven volts! Three and one half watts. Bring on your atom-smashers!
Bring on your power-consuming factory-districts. Hang the whole load
of Central United States on the wires, for we have three and one half
watts! Just enough to run an electric clock!"

"But would it keep time?" asked Barney. "Is the frequency right?"

"Nope--but we'd run it. Look, fellows, when anyone tells you about
this, insist that we got thirty-five hundred milliwatts on our first
try. It sounds bigger."

"O.K., so we're getting from Sol just about three tenths of the soup
we need to make the set-up self-sustaining," said Walt. "Wes, this
in-phase anode of yours--what can we do with it?"

"If this thing worked, I was going to suggest that there is enough
power out there to spare. We could possibly modulate the in-phase anode
with anything we wanted, and there would be enough junk floating around
in the photosphere to slam on through."

"Maybe it is that lack of selectivity that licks us now," said Don.
"Run the voltage up and down a bit. There should be D.C. running around
in Sol, too."

"Whatever this power-level is running at," said Barney, "we may get
in-phase voltage--or in-phase power by running a line from the power
terminal back. Move over, boys, I'm going to hang a test clip in here."

Barney's gloved hands fumbled a bit, but the clip was attached. He
opened the anode-coupler once again, and the meter slammed against the
full-scale peg.

"See?" he said triumphantly.

"Yup," said Channing cryptically. "You, Bernard, have doubled our
input."

"Mind if I take a whack at aligning it?" asked Wes.

"Go ahead. What we need is a guy with eyes in his fingertips. Have you?"

"No, but I'd like to try."

Farrell worked with the deflection plate alignment, and then said,
ruefully: "No dice. Barney had it right on the beam."

"Is she aligned with Sol?" asked Channing.

Walt squinted down the tube. "Couldn't be better," he said, blinking.

"Could it be that we're actually missing Sol?" asked Don. "I mean,
could it be that line-of-sight and line-of-power aren't one and the
same thing?"

"Could be," acknowledged Wes. Walt stepped to the verniers and swung
the big intake tube over a minute arc. The meter jumped once more, and
Channing stepped the sensitivity down again. Walt fiddled until the
meter read maximum and then he left the tube that way.

"Coming up," said Channing. "We're now four times our original try. We
now have enough juice to run an electric train--a toy train! Someone
think of something else, please. I've had my idea for the day."

"Let's juggle electrode-spacing," suggested Wes.

"Can do," said Walt, brandishing a huge spanner wrench in one gloved
hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Four solid, futile hours later, the power output of the solar beam was
still standing at a terrifying fourteen watts. Channing was scratching
furiously on a pad of paper with a large pencil; Walt was trying
voltage-variations on the supply-anodes in a desultory manner; Barney
was measuring the electrode spacing with a huge vernier rule, and Wes
was staring at the sun, dimmed to seeable brightness by a set of dark
glasses.

Wes was muttering to himself. "Electrode-voltages, O.K. ... alignment
perfect ... solar power output ... not like power-line electricity ...
solar composition ... Russell's Mixture--"

"Whoooo said that!" roared Channing.

"Who said what?" asked Barney.

"Why bust our eardrums?" objected Walt.

"What do you mean?" asked Wes, coming to life for the moment.

"Something about Russell's Mixture. Who said that?"

"I did. Why?"

"Look, Wes, what are your cathodes made of?"

"Thorium, C. P. metal. That's why they are shipped in metal containers
in a vacuum."

"What happens if you try to use something else?"

"Don't work very well. In fact, if the output cathode and the input
dynode are not the same metal, they won't pass power at all."

"You're on the trail right now!" shouted Channing. "Russell's Mixture?"

"Sounds like a brand of smoking tobacco to me. Mind making a noise like
an encyclopedia and telling me what is Russell's Mixture?"

"Russell's Mixture is a conglomeration of elements which go into the
making of Sol--and all the other stars," explained Don. "Hydrogen,
Oxygen, Sodium, and Magnesium, Iron, Silicon, Potassium, and Calcium.
They, when mixed according to the formula for Russell's Mixture, which
can be found in any book on the composition of stars, become the
most probable mixture of metals. They--Russell's Mixture--go into
the composition of all stars, what isn't mentioned in the mix isn't
important."

"And what has this Russell got that we haven't got?" asked Walt.

"H, O, Na, Mg, Fe, Si, K, and Ca. And we, dear people, have Th, which
Russell has not. Walt, call the metallurgical lab and have 'em whip up
a batch."

"Cook to a fine edge and serve with a spray of parsley? Or do we cut it
into cubes--"

"Go ahead," said Channing. "Be funny. You just heard the man say that
dissimilar dynode-cathodes do not work. What we need for our solar beam
is a dynode of Russell's Mixture so that it will be similar to our
cathode--which in this case is Sol. Follow me?"

"Yeah," said Walt. "I follow, but brother I'm a long way behind.
But I'll catch up," he promised as he made connection between his
suit-radio and the Station communicator system. "Riley," he said, "Here
we go again. Can you whip us up a batch of Russell's Mixture?"

Riley's laugh was audible to the others, since it was broadcast by
Walt's set. "Yeah, man, we can--if it's got metal in it? What, pray
tell, is Russell's Mixture?"

Walt explained the relation between Russell's Mixture and the
composition of Sol.

"Sun makers, hey?" asked Riley. "Is the chief screwball there?"

"Yup," said Walt, grinning at Don.

"Sounds like him. Yeah, we can make you an alloy consisting of
Russell's Mixture. Tony's got it here, now, and it doesn't look hard.
How big a dynode do you want?"

Walt gave him the dimensions of the dynode in the solar tube.

"Cinch," said Riley. "You can have it in two hours."

"Swell."

"But it'll be hotter than hell. Better make that six or seven hours. We
may run into trouble making it jell."

"I'll have Arden slip you some pectin," said Walt. "Tomorrow morning
then?"

"Better. That's a promise."

Walt turned to the rest. "If any of us can sleep," he said, "I'd
suggest it. Something tells me that tomorrow is going to be one of
those days that mother told me about. I'll buy a drink."

       *       *       *       *       *

Walt opened the anode-coupler circuit, and the needle of the output
ammeter slammed across the scale and wound the needle halfway around
the stop pin. The shunt, which was an external, high-dissipation
job, turned red, burned the paint off of its radiator fins, and then
proceeded to melt. It sputtered in flying droplets of molten metal.
Smoke spewed from the case of the ammeter, dissipating in the vacuum of
the blister.

Walt closed the coupler circuit.

"Whammo!" he said. "Mind blowing a hundred-amp meter?"

"No," grinned Don. "T have a thousand amp job that I'll sacrifice in
the same happy-hearted fashion. Get an idea of the power?"

"Voltmeter was hanging up around ten thousand volts just before the
amp-meter went bye-bye."

"Um-m-m. Ten thousand volts at a hundred amps. That is one million
watts, my friends, and no small potatoes. To run the Station's
communicating equipment we need seven times that much. Can we do it?"

"We can. I'll have Jim Warren start running the main power bus down
here and we'll try it. Meanwhile, we've got a healthy cable from the
generator room; we can run the noncommunicating drain of the Station
from our plaything here. That should give us an idea. We can use a
couple of million watts right there. If this gadget will handle it,
we can make one that will take the whole load without groaning. I'm
calling Jim right now. He can start taking the load over from the
generators as we increase our intake. We'll fade, but not without a
flicker."

Walt hooked the output terminals of the tube to the huge cable blocks,
using sections of the same heavy cable.

Jim Warren called: "Are you ready?"

"Fade her in," said Walt. He kept one eye on the line voltmeter and
opened the anode-coupler slightly. The meter dipped as Warren shunted
the Station load over to the tube circuit. Walt brought the line
voltage up to above normal, and it immediately dropped as Warren took
more load from the solar intake. This jockeying went on for several
minutes until Warren called: "You've got it all. Now what?"

"Start running the bus down here to take the communications load," said
Don. "We're running off of an eight hundred thousand mile cathode now,
and his power output is terrific. Or better, Jim, run us a high-tension
line down here and we'll save silver. We can ram ten thousand volts up
there for transformation. Get me?"

"What frequency?"

"Yeah," drawled Channing, "have Charley Thomas run us a control line
from the primary frequency standard. We'll control our frequency with
that. O.K.?"

"Right-o."

Channing looked at the set-up once more. It was singularly
unprepossessing, this conglomeration of iron and steel and plastic.
There was absolutely nothing to indicate the two and one third million
watts of power that coursed from Sol, through its maze of anodes, and
into the electric lines of Venus Equilateral. The cathodes and dynode
glowed with their usual dull red glow, but there was no coruscating
aura of power around the elements of the system. The gymbals that held
the big tube slid easily, permitting the tube to rotate freely as the
selsyn motor kept the tube pointing at Sol. The supply cables remained
cool and operative, and to all appearances, the set-up was inert.

"O.K., fellows," said Channing. "This is it--"

He was interrupted by the frantic waving of Kingman, from the other
side of the air lock.

"I feel slightly conscience-stricken," he said with a smile that showed
that he didn't mean it at all. "But let us go and prepare the goat for
shearing."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kingman's trouble was terrific, according to him. "Mr. Channing," he
complained, "you are not following our wishes. And you, Mr. Farrell,
have been decidedly amiss in your hobnobbing with the engineers here.
You were sent out as my consultant, not to assist them in their
endeavors."

"What's your grief?" asked Channing.

"I find that your laboratory has been changing the circuits without
having previously informed me of the proposed change," complained
Kingman. "I feel that I am within my rights in removing the tubes
brought here. Your investigations have not been sanctioned--" he looked
out through the air lock. "What are you doing out there?"

"We have just succeeded in taking power from the sun," said Don. He
tried to keep his voice even, but the exultation was too high in him,
and his voice sounded like sheer joy.

"You have been--" Kingman did a double-take. "You _what_?" he yelled.

"Have succeeded in tapping Sol for power."

"Why, that's wonderful."

"Thank you," said Don. "You will no doubt be glad to hear that Wes
Farrell was instrumental in this program."

"Then a certain part of the idea is rightfully the property of Terran
Electric," said Kingman.

"I am afraid not," said Don. "Dr. Farrell's assistance was not
requested. Though his contribution was of great value, it was given
freely. He was not solicited. Therefore, since Terran Electric was not
consulted formally, Dr. Farrell's contribution to our solar power beam
can not be considered as offering a hold on our discovery."

"This is true, Dr. Farrell?"

"I'm afraid so. You see, I saw what was going on and became interested,
academically. I naturally offered a few minor suggestions, in somewhat
the same manner as a motorist will stop and offer another motorist
assistance in changing a tire. The problem was interesting to me and as
a problem, it did not seem to me--"

"Your actions in discussing this with members of the Venus Equilateral
technical staff without authorization will have cost us plenty,"
snapped Kingman. "However, we shall deal with you later."

"You know," said Farrell with a cheerfully malicious grin, "if you had
been less stuffy about our tubes, they might be less stuffy about my
contribution."

"Ah, these nonlegal agreements are never satisfactory. But that is to
be discussed later. What do you intend to do with your invention, Dr.
Channing?"

Channing smiled in a superior manner. "As you see, the device is small.
Yet it handles a couple of million watts. An even smaller unit might
be made that would suffice to supply a home, or even a community. As
for the other end, I see no reason why the size might not be increased
to a point where it may obsolete all existing power-generating
stations."

Kingman's complexion turned slightly green. He swallowed hard. "You, of
course, would not attempt to put this on the market yourself."

"No?" asked Channing. "I think you'll find that Interplanetary
Communications is as large, if not larger, than Terran Electric, and
we have an enviable reputation for delivering the goods. We could sell
refrigerators to the Titan Colony if we had the V-E label on them and
claimed they were indispensable. Our escutcheon is not without its
adherents."

"I see," said Kingman. His present volubility would not have talked a
jury into freeing the armless wonder from a pickpocketing charge. "Is
your invention patentable?"

"I think so. While certain phases of it are like the driver tube,
which, of course, is public domain, the applications are quite
patentable. I must admit that certain parts are of the power
transmission tube, but not enough for you to claim a hold, I know. At
any rate, I shall be busy for the next hour, transmitting the details
to Washington, so that the Interplanetary Patent Office may rule on it.
Our Terran legal department has a direct line there, you know, and they
have been directed to maintain that contact at all cost."

"May I use your lines?"

"Certainly. They are public carriers. You will not be restricted any
more than any other man. I am certain that our right to transmit
company business without waiting for the usual turn will not be
contested."

"That sounds like a veiled threat."

"That, sounds like slander!"

"Oh no. Believe me. But wait, Dr. Channing. Is there no way in which we
may meet on a common ground?"

"I think so. We want free hand in this tube proposition."

"For which rights you will turn over a nominal interest in solar power?"

"Forty percent."

"But we--"

"I know, you want control."

"We'd like it."

"Sorry. Those are our terms. Take 'em or leave 'em."

"Supposing that we offer you full and unrestricted rights to any or all
developments you or we make on the Martian transmission tubes?"

"That might be better to our liking."

"We might buck you," said Kingman, but there was doubt in his voice.

"Yes? You know, Kingman, I'm not too sure that Venus Equilateral wants
to play around with power except as a maintenance angle. What if we
toss the solar beam to the public domain? That is within our right,
too."

Kingman's green color returned, this time accompanied with beads of
sweat. He turned to Farrell. "Is there nothing we can do? Is this
patentable?"

"No--Yes," grinned Farrell.

Kingman excused himself. He went to the office provided for him and
began to send messages to the Terran Electric offices at Chicago. The
forty minute wait between message and answer was torture to him, but
it was explained to him that light and radio crossed space at one
hundred and eighty-six thousand miles per second and that even an
Act of Congress could do nothing to hurry it. Meanwhile, Channing's
description tied up the Terran Beam for almost an hour at the standard
rate of twelve hundred words per minute. Their answers came within a
few minutes of one another.

Channing tossed the 'gram before Kingman. "Idea definitely patentable,"
said the wire.

Kingman stood up. Apparently the lawyer believed that his pronouncement
would carry more weight by looming over the smiling, easy-going faces
of his parties-of-the-second-part. "I am prepared to negotiate with
your legal department; offering them, and you, the full rights to the
use of the transmission tube. This will include full access to any
and all discoveries, improvements, and/or changes made at any time
from its discovery to the termination of this contract, which shall be
terminated only by absolute mutual agreement between Terran Electric
and Interplanetary Communications.

"In return for this, Interplanetary Communications will permit
Terran Electric to exploit the solar beam tube fully and freely, and
exclusively--"

"Make that slightly different," said Channing. "Terran Electric's
rights shall prevail exclusively--_except_ within the realm of
space, upon man-made celestial objects, and upon the satellites and
minor natural celestial bodies where stations of the Interplanetary
Communications Company are established."

Kingman thought that one over. "In other words, if the transport
companies desire to use the solar beam, you will hold domain from the
time they leave an atmosphere until they again touch--"

"Let's not complicate things," smiled Don cheerfully. "I like
uncomplicated things."

Kingman smiled wryly. "I'm sure," he agreed with fine sarcasm. "But
I see your point. You intend to power the communications system with
the solar beam. That is natural. Also, you feel that a certain amount
of revenue should be coming your way. Yes, I believe that our legal
departments can agree."

"So let's not make the transport companies change masters in
mid-space," smiled Don.

"You are taking a lot on your shoulders," said Kingman. "We wouldn't
permit our technicians to dictate the terms of an agreement."

"You are not going to like Venus Equilateral at all," laughed Don.
"We wouldn't permit our legal department to dabble in things of which
they know nothing. Years ago, when the first concentric beam was
invented, which we now use to punch a hole in the Heaviside Layer,
Communications was built about a group of engineers. We held the three
inner planets together by the seat of our pants, so to speak, and
nurtured communications from a slipshod, hope-to-God-it-gets through
proposition to a sure thing. Funny, but when people were taking their
messages catch as catch can, there was no reason for legal lights. Now
that we can and do insure messages against their loss, we find that we
are often tangled up with legal red tape.

"Otherwise, we wouldn't have a lawyer on the premises. They serve their
purpose, no doubt, but in this gang, the engineers tell the attorneys
how to run things. We shall continue to do so. Therefore you are
speaking with the proper parties, and once the contract is prepared by
you, we shall have an attorney run through the whereases, wherefores,
and parties of the first, second, and third parts to see that there is
no sleight of hand in the microscopic type."

"You're taking a chance," warned Kingman. "All men are not as
fundamentally honest as Terran Electric."

"Kingman," smiled Channing, "I hate to remind you of this, but who got
what just now? We wanted the transmission tube."

"I see your point. But we have a means of getting power out of the sun."

"We have a hunk of that too. It would probably have been a mere matter
of time before some bright bird at Terran found the thing as it was."

"I shall see that the contract gives you domain over man-made objects
in space--including those that occasionally touch upon the natural
celestial objects. Also the necessary equipment operating under the
charter of Interplanetary Communications, wherever or whenever it may
be, including any future installations."

"Fine."

"You may have trouble understanding our feelings. We are essentially a
space-born company, and as such we can have no one at the helm that is
not equipped to handle the technical details of operation in space."
Channing smiled reminiscently. "We had a so-called efficiency expert
running Venus Equilateral a couple of years ago, and the fool nearly
wrecked us because he didn't know that the airplant was not a mass of
highly complicated, chemical reaction machinery instead of what it
really is. Kingman, do you know what an airplant is?"

"Frankly no. I should imagine it is some sort of air-purifying device."

"You'll sit down hard when I tell you that the airplant is just what
it is. Martian Sawgrass! What better device in the solar system can be
used for air-purifying than a chlorophyll-bearing plant; it takes in
carbon dioxide and gives off oxygen. Brother Burbank tossed it in the
incinerator because he thought it was just weeds, cluttering up the
place. He was allergic to good engineering, anyway."

"That may be good enough in space," said Kingman, "but on Terra, we
feel that our engineers are not equipped to dabble in the legal tangles
that follow when they force us to establish precedent by inventing
something that has never been covered by a previous decision."

"O.K.," said Don. "Every man to his own scope. Write up your contract,
Kingman, and we'll all climb on the bandwagon with our illiterary X's."

       *       *       *       *       *

In Evanston, North of Chicago, the leaves changed from their riotous
green to a somber brown, and fell to lay a blanket over the earth. Snow
covered the dead leaves, and Christmas, with its holly went into the
past, followed closely by New Year's Eve with its hangover.

And on a roof by the shore of Lake Michigan, a group of men stood in
overcoats beside a huge machine that towered above the great letters of
the Terran Electric Company sign that could be seen all the way from
Gary, Indiana.

It was a beautiful thing, this tube; a far cry from the haywire thing
that had brought solar power to Venus Equilateral. It was mounted
on gymbals, and the metal was bright-plated and perfectly machined.
Purring motors caused the tube to rotate to follow the sun.

"Is she aligned?" asked the project engineer.

"Right on the button."

"Good. We can't miss with this one. There may have been something sour
with the rest, but this one ran Venus Equilateral--the whole Relay
Station--for ten days without interruption."

He faced the anxious men in overcoats. "Here we go," he said, and his
hand closed upon the switch that transferred the big tube from test
power to operating power.

The engineer closed the switch, and stepped over to the great, vaned,
air-cooled ammeter shunt. On a panel just beyond the shunt the meter
hung--

At Zero!

"Um," said the project engineer. "Something wrong, no doubt."

They checked every connection, every possible item in the circuit.

"Nothing wrong."

"Oh now look," said the project engineer, "This isn't hell, where the
equipment is always perfect except that it doesn't work."

"This is hell," announced his assistant. "The thing is perfect except
that it doesn't work."

"It worked on Venus Equilateral."

"We've changed nothing, and we handled that gadget like it was made of
cello-gel. We're running the same kind of voltage, checked on Standard
Voltmeters. We're within one tenth of one percent of the original
operating conditions. But--no power."

"Call Channing."

The beams between Terra and Venus Equilateral carried furious messages
for several hours. Channing's answer said: "I'm curious. Am bringing
the experimental ship to Terra to investigate."

The project engineer asked: "Isn't that the job that they hooked up to
use solar power for their drive?"

His assistant said: "That's it. And it worked."

"I know. I took a run on it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Channing was taking a chance, running the little _Anopheles_ to Terra,
but he knew his ship, and he was no man to be overcautious. He drove
it for Terra at three G, and by dead reckoning, started down into
Terra's blanket of air, heading for the Terran Electric plant which was
situated on the lake shore.

Then down out of the cloudless sky came the _Anopheles_ in a free
fall. It screamed with the whistle of tortured air as it fell, and it
caught the attention of every man that was working at Terran Electric.

Only those on the roof saw the egg-shaped hull fall out of the sky
unchecked; landing fifteen hundred yards off shore in Lake Michigan.

The splash was terrific.

"Channing--!" said the project engineer, aghast.

"No, look, there--a lifeship!"

Cautiously sliding down, a minute lifeship less than the size of a
freight car came to a landing in the Terran Electric construction yard.
Channing emerged, his face white. He bent down and kissed the steel
grille of the construction yard fervently.

Someone ran out and gave Channing a brown bottle. Don nodded, and took
a draw of monstrous proportions. He gagged, made a face, and smiled in
a very wan manner.

"Thanks," he said shakily. He took another drink, of more gentlemanly
size.

"What happened?"

"Dunno. Was coming in at three G. About four hundred miles up, the
deceleration just quit. Like that! I made it to the skeeter, here, in
just enough time to get her away about two miles ago. _Whoosh!_"

Don dug into his pocket and found cigarettes. He lit up and drew
deeply. "Something cock-eyed, here. That stoppage might make me think
that my tube failed; but--"

"You suspect that our tube isn't working for the same reason?" finished
the project engineer.

"Yes. I'm thinking of the trick, ultra-high powered, concentric beams
we have to use to ram a hole through the Heaviside Layer. We start out
with three million watts of sheer radio frequency and end up with just
enough to make our receivers worth listening to. Suppose this had some
sort of Heaviside Layer?"

"In which case, Terran Electric hasn't got solar power," said the
project engineer. "Tim, load this bottle into the _Electric Lady_, and
we'll see if we can find this barrier." To Channing, he said: "You look
as though you could stand a rest. Check into a hotel in Chicago and
we'll call you when we're ready to try it out."

Channing agreed. A shave, a bath, and a good night's sleep did wonders
for his nerves, as did a large amount of Scotch. He was at Terran
Electric in the morning, once more in command of himself.

Up into the sky went the ship that carried the solar tube. It remained
inert until the ship passed above three hundred and forty miles. Then
the ammeter needle swung over, and the huge shunt grew warm. The
tenuous atmosphere outside of the ship was unchanged, yet the beam drew
power of gigantic proportions.

They dropped again. The power ceased.

They spent hours rising and falling, charting this unknown barrier
that stopped the unknown radiation from bringing solar power right down
to earth. It was there, all right, and impervious. Above, megawatts
raced through the giant shunt. Below, not even a micro-ammeter could
detect a trace of current.

"O.K., Don," said the project engineer. "We'll have to do some more
work on it. It's nothing of your doing."

Mark Kingman's face was green again, but he nodded in agreement. "We
seem to have a useless job here, but we'll think of something."

Channing left for Venus Equilateral in two more days. They studied the
barrier and established its height as a constant three hundred and
thirty-nine, point seven six miles above Terra's mythical sea level. It
was almost a perfect sphere, that did not change with the night and day
as did the Heaviside Layer. There was no way to find out how thick it
was, but thickness was of no importance, since it effectively stopped
the beam.

And as Don Channing stepped aboard the _Princess of the Sky_ to get
home again, the project engineer said: "If you don't mind, I think
we'll call that one the Channing Layer!"

"Yeah," grinned Don, pleased at the thought, "and forever afterward it
will stand as a cinder in the eye of Terran Electric."

"Oh," said the project engineer, "We'll beat the Channing Layer."

The project engineer was a bum prophet--


                               THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LONG WAY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
