The Project Gutenberg eBook of Trouble on Titan, by Henry Kuttner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Trouble on Titan

Author: Henry Kuttner

Release Date: May 14, 2022 [eBook #68076]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan, Alex White and the online
             Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
             https://www.pgdpcanada.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TROUBLE ON TITAN ***





                            TROUBLE ON TITAN

                     A COMPLETE TONY QUADE NOVELET

                           By HENRY KUTTNER

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Thrilling Wonder Stories, February 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

   _The sub-human denizens of Saturn’s largest moon were said to be
   harmless—but when the ace director of Nine Planets Films was sent
   to photograph them, he was in for a shock!_




                               CHAPTER I
                        _Von Zorn Is Perturbed_


Whenever Von Zorn, chief of Nine Planets Films, ran into trouble he
automatically started the televisors humming with calls for Anthony
Quade. The televisors were humming now. In fact they were shrieking
hysterically. Quade’s code number bellowed out through a startled and
partially deafened Hollywood on the Moon.

Von Zorn, teetering on the edge of his chair behind the great
glass-brick desk, was throwing a fit.

“You can’t do this to me!” he yelped into the transmitter, his scrubby
mustache bristling with outrage. “I know you can hear me, Quade! It’s a
matter of life and death! _Quade!_”

A covey of anxious secretaries winced involuntarily as he swung the
chair around.

“_Get Quade!_” he screamed. “Bring me Quade! All you do is stand around
with your mouths open. I—” He paused, the light of an unpleasant idea
dawning across his face. He was grinning disagreeably as he switched the
televisor to a private wavelength.

“I’ll fix _him_!” he muttered. “I’ll—oh, hello.” This to the face that
flashed onto the screen before him. Rapidly Von Zorn spoke to the face.
It nodded, smiling grimly.

Afterward Von Zorn leaned back and called for a drink.

“Nine Planets on the brink of ruin,” he growled into the tilted glass,
“and Quade runs out on me. I’ll fire him! I’ll blackball him all over
the System! But not till he does this job.”

Meanwhile Tony Quade, relaxing comfortably in a seat at the Lunar Bowl,
listened to a distant orchestra in the depths of the crater crash into
the opening strains of the _Star Symphony_. Under his coat a pocket
televisor was buzzing shrill commands.

Quade chuckled and shifted his big-boned body more comfortably in the
padded chair. Kathleen Gregg, beside him, smiled in the dimness and he
told himself that she was prettier than ever.

It was to her credit that she loathed the title of “The System’s
Sweetheart” which an enthusiastic publicity department had bestowed upon
her. She was one of Nine Planets’ brightest stars and Tony Quade was in
love with her.

“Hello, stupid,” he said lazily. “You look worried. Anything wrong?”

“I suppose you know what you’re doing,” Kathleen murmured. “Of course,
Von Zorn’s only been calling you half an hour.”

The cries from the pocket televisor had been all too audible, Quade
realized. He grinned largely and laid an arm along the back of her
chair.

“Let him yell.”

“It must be important, Tony.”

“I,” said Quade, “am resting. Shooting _Star Parade_ was hard work. I
need a rest. Anyhow, it’s much too nice a night to listen to Von Zorn.”

“It is nice,” the girl agreed. She glanced around them. This was the
topmost tier of the Lunar Bowl. At their feet the long rows of seats
swept down endlessly to the central platform far below, where an
orchestra sat in the changing play of varicolored searchlights.

Behind these uppermost seats stretched Hollywood on the Moon, the
strangest city in the Solar System. The wonder of Hollywood on the Moon
does not quickly fade, even to eyes that have seen it often. It is a
garden metropolis on the far side of Earth’s satellite, in a gigantic
valley bounded by the Great Rim.

Here the film studios had built their city, washed by an artificially
created, germ-free atmosphere, anchored in the crater by
electro-magnetic gravity fields maintained in the caverns below. Far
distant, the Silver Spacesuit glowed with pale radiance, the broad,
white-lit expanse of Lunar Boulevard stretching past it toward the Rim.

From somewhere above a beam of light shot suddenly downward full upon
them. Blinded, Quade and Kathleen looked up, seeing nothing at all.
Then, without any warning, Quade arose and floated starward.

Kathleen made a quick, involuntary snatch at his vanishing heels,
missed, and cried distractedly.

“_Tony!_”

From somewhere above his voice spoke with annoyance.

“They’ve got a gravity beam on me. I could get loose, but I’d break my
neck.” The sound trailed off into a distant murmur. “I’ll murder Von
Zorn for this....”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Quade felt solid metal beneath his feet. The beam faded. Blinking, he
looked around. This was the lower lock of a police ship. Black-clad
officers were wheeling away the great anti-gravity lens. A man with a
captain’s bars took his finger off the button that had closed the lock
and looked at Quade speculatively.

“What’s the idea?” Quade demanded crossly.

“Sorry, sir. We’re looking for a Moonship stowaway. You answer his
description.”

“My name’s Quade. I don’t suppose you’d even look at my credentials.”

The captain looked blank.

“Might be forged, you know. We can’t afford to take chances. If you’re
Tony Quade, Mr. Von Zorn can identify you.”

“He will,” Quade said between his teeth. “Yeah—he will!”

Five minutes later they stood in Von Zorn’s office. The film executive
looked up from a script and nodded coldly.

“Tell him who I am,” Quade said in a weary voice. “I’ve got a date.”

“It’s not as easy as that. You’re either Quade or a Moonship stowaway.
If you’re Quade I’ve got to talk to you.”

“I’ve got a date. Also, I quit.”

Von Zorn ignored this.

“If you’re not Quade it means jail, doesn’t it?” He glanced at the
captain, who nodded.

Quade thought it over. Of course he could get out of jail without much
trouble, but not perhaps for some hours. Besides, he was beginning to
wonder what mishap had occurred. It must be pretty serious.

“Okay,” he said. “I’m Quade. Now tell your stooge to rocket out of
here.”

Von Zorn nodded with satisfaction, waved the captain away and pushed
toward Quade a box of greenish, aromatic Lunar cigars. Quade pointedly
lit one of his own cigarettes and sat down in a glass-and-leather chair.

“Shoot.”

But Von Zorn wasn’t anxious to begin. He took a cigar, bit the end off
savagely, and applied flame. Finally he spoke.

“Udell’s dead.”

Quade was startled. He put down his cigarette.

“Poor old chap. How did it happen?”

“In the Asteroid Belt. A meteor smashed his ship. He was coming back
here from Titan. A patrol ship just towed his boat in.”

Quade nodded. He had met Jacques Udell only a few times, but he’d liked
the eccentric old fellow, who was somewhat of a genius in his own
fashion. A scientist who had turned to film-making, he had once or twice
created pictures that had amazed the System—like _Dust_, the saga of
the nomad Martian tribes.

“All right.” Von Zorn punctuated his sentences with jabs of the cigar.
“Get this, Tony. Last month Udell sent me a package and a letter. In the
package was a can of film. I ran it off. He’d filmed the Zonals.”

“That’s been done before—for what it’s worth. They’re sub-humans,
aren’t they? Not much story-value there.”

“They’re the queerest race in the system. Ever see one? Wait till you
do—you won’t believe it! Udell worked some sort of miracle—he really
got a story. The Zonals acted in it for him. Intelligently!”

“That doesn’t seem possible.”

“It isn’t. But Udell did it. He shot one reel and sent it to me with the
scenario. It’s a good story. It’ll be a smash hit. I bought the pic on
the strength of the first reel. Paid plenty for it. I’ve sent out
advance blurbs and it’s too late to call them all back now.”

“Udell didn’t finish?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Von Zorn shook his head.

“He was on his way back here for some reason or other, with two more
reels finished, when a meteor cracked him up. The reels are spoiled, of
course. Udell didn’t have sense enough to insulate ’em.”

Von Zorn snapped his cigar in two.

“I own the picture. I paid him for it. But he was the only man who knew
how to make the Zonals work for the camera. See the catch, Tony?”

“You want me to finish the pic. A nice easy job. Why not fake the rest
of it?”

“I don’t dare,” Von Zorn admitted frankly. “I’ve already blurbed this as
the real thing. It’d raise too big a howl if we used robots. I can
imagine what that Carlyle dame would do.”

Quade grinned maliciously.

“Catch-’em-Alive” Carlyle, interplanetary explorer extraordinary, was
Von Zorn’s vulnerable point, his heel of Achilles.

“She’s suing me,” Von Zorn said, breathing audibly. “For libel. Says the
_Gerri Murri_ cartoons are libelous.”

“Well, aren’t they?” Quade asked. This animated cartoon series,
depicting Gerry Carlyle as an inquisitive bug-eyed Venusian _Murri_, had
proved immensely popular with everybody but Gerry. She had created a
fair-sized riot in Froman’s Mercurian Theatre when she first recognized
her counterpart on the screen.

“We won’t discuss that—that—” Von Zorn gulped and finished weakly,
“that tomato. Do you want to see Udell’s film on the Zonals?”

“Might as well,” Quade agreed, getting up. “I may get some ideas about
his method.”

“You’d better get some ideas,” Von Zorn said darkly, “or we’ll all be in
the soup.”




                               CHAPTER II
                            _Trip to Titan_


The next morning Quade went to the spaceport to examine Udell’s wrecked
ship, which had arrived in tow a few hours before. Von Zorn was with him
and at the last moment Kathleen, scenting something interesting,
attached herself to Quade’s elbow and would not be dislodged.

Quade was not entirely happy about her presence, because of a vague
uneasiness he could not name. He had hunches like that occasionally. He
felt one strongly now about the wrecked ship and the dangers that might
lie dormant there.

“You see, silly, nothing’s wrong,” Kathleen said impatiently as they
stood in the great torn hole that had been the ruined ship’s side. The
vessel, a small, six-man job, was warped and twisted grotesquely by the
impact of the meteor, which had ripped completely through the walls of
the control room and emerged into space on the other side. The bodies
had been removed, but nothing else was yet touched.

“All the same,” Quade told the girl uneasily, “I don’t like it. I wish
you’d stay outside.”

“Ha!” Kathleen said in a sceptical voice and ducked her curly head under
the torn wall to peer inside. “Nothing here. Don’t be such a sissy,
Tony. What could possibly hurt me?”

“How can I tell? All I know is, wherever you go there’s trouble. Stand
back now and let me take a look.”

But he found nothing. Even a careful search of the interior disclosed
little to warrant that feeling that something more serious had happened
here than a mere chance accident with a meteor. The only thing that
puzzled him was the wreckage in the ship.

Bottles, instruments, gauges, seemed smashed more thoroughly than they
should be, considering the impact of the meteor. Furniture was
splintered, not only in the control room but in every other part of the
vessel.

“I don’t get this,” Quade said slowly. “The meteor didn’t cause all this
damage. It looks—” He hesitated. “It looks as though Udell and his men
had gone on a spree. But there’s no sign of liquor on the ship.”

“Oxygen jag?” Von Zorn suggested.

Quade examined the tanks.

“No, it doesn’t look like it. They didn’t even use oxygen to try to save
themselves. Look—they could have blocked off the control room with
airtight panels and released oxygen. Or they might at least have got
into their spacesuits. There must have been time for that. I’ve got a
hunch—”

Von Zorn was examining the cans of film, the casings intact but the film
itself spoiled by exposure.

“Eh?” he said. “You have a theory?”

“An idea, that’s all. If Udell and the navigator had been in their right
minds, they needn’t have collided with the meteor. Look here—the
automatic repulsors are smashed. That’s what caused the trouble.”

“In their right minds?” Von Zorn echoed slowly. “Space-_cafard_?”

“Hitting all of ’em? Hardly! Is a postmortem being done?”

Von Zorn nodded.

“The report ought to be ready by now if you want to check up.” He chewed
his cigar savagely. “If only one man of the crew had lived! We’ve got a
smash hit dumped on our laps and goodness knows if we can even film it.”

Kathleen put her head through a wrenched door-frame. She was a little
pale.

“Really, Tony, it’s rather horrible. I hadn’t realized—I never saw a
space wreck before.”

“Let’s get on the televisor,” Quade said decisively. “I’d like to check
on the postmortems.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

He swung out through the half-fused port, and the others followed him
into the Patrol office. A few minutes’ conversation with the authorities
was all that was necessary when Von Zorn used his name. Then a gaunt
face above a white jacket dawned on the screen. There were
introductions.

“Did you find anything out of the ordinary?” Quade asked.

The reflected head shook negatively.

“Well, not what you’d expect, anyhow. The crash certainly killed them
all, if that’s what you mean. No question of foul play. But—” He
hesitated.

“But what?”

“Antibodies,” said the man reluctantly. “Something new. I can’t get any
trace of a virus. Apparently some disease attacked the men. Their
systems built up antibodies that I never encountered before. Something
funny about the neural tissues, too. The cellular structure’s altered a
little.”

Von Zorn thrust his head toward the screen.

“But what was it? That’s what we want to know. Were they conscious when
they died?”

“I think not. My theory is that Udell and his crew were attacked by some
disease native to Titan. Maybe the same disease that turned the Zonals
into idiots.”

“I’ve got to go to Titan myself,” Quade said slowly. “Suppose we work
there in spacesuits. Could a virus get through metal or glass?”

“I think you’d be safe. Mind you, that’s just my opinion. There’s such a
thing as a filterable virus, you know. But, judging by the antibodies,
I’d say there’d be no risk if you wore spacesuits constantly, outside
your ship.”

“It won’t be easy,” Quade said, “but it’s better than infection.”

“We’ve taken tests of the wrecked ship,” the man in the screen told
them. “No trace of any unusual disease-germ or virus. We’ve tested
samples on protoplasmic cultures and got nothing but the ordinary bugs
present everywhere. Sorry I can’t tell you more.”

“That’s okay,” Quade said. “Thanks.” He clicked off the televisor. “All
right, then. We film _Sons of Titan_ in spacesuits.”

Kathleen looked worried.

“I—I don’t like it, Tony. Do you have to—”

“Can’t leave a flicker like that unfinished,” Quade said. “I saw the
reel Udell sent in. It’s magnificent theater. The tragedy of the
Zonals—one of the biggest epics the System ever saw. They used to be
highly civilized at one time, historians think, but something wrecked
their brains.

“They’re decadent now, little better than animals. If I can film the
rest of _Sons of Titan_, we’ll have something really big—_Grass_ and
_Chang_ and _Dust_ all rolled into one. _If_ I can figure out how to
make the Zonals act.

“They acted for Udell—magnificently. They lived their roles. And that’s
what’s so mysterious, Kathleen. The Zonals aren’t really smart enough to
come in out of the rain.”

“Could it have been faked?” the girl asked.

“No,” Von Zorn said decisively. “No question of robots. Udell made ace
actors out of—of sub-idiots. The question is how?”

“Same way you did with that new crooner you’re starring, maybe,” Quade
said rather sardonically. He was examining a slip of paper. “I picked
this up in Udell’s ship—it’s a list of supplies he planned to get in
Hollywood on the Moon. That’s probably why he came back from Titan—he
ran out of some things he needed. Let’s see. Why did he want
neo-curare?”

“What’s that?” Von Zorn asked.

“Derivative of curare. A poison that paralyzes the motor nerves. I
didn’t know the Zonals had nerves.”

“Their neural structure’s atrophied, Tony. Mm-m. What else is on that
list?”

“Cusconidin, Monsel’s Salt, sodium sulphoricinate, a baresthesiometer,
lenses, filters, camera stuff—nothing special in the medical supplies
Udell wanted. You’ve got to jazz up the pharmacy when you’re in space,
anyhow. Your katabolism changes, and so on. Variant drugs—”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Von Zorn spoke abruptly.

“There was something about a degenerate race of Zonals that attacked
Udell’s party, I think. An outlaw tribe. They had a high resistance to
wounds; pretty invulnerable. Neo-curare’s a fast-working poison, isn’t
it?

“Well—there’s your answer. Special ammunition against that particular
tribe in case they attacked again. Udell probably intended to smear
neo-curare on his ammunition.”

“Could be,” Quade said. He hesitated, thumbed a button and called Wolfe,
his assistant, on the televisor. The youngster’s thin face and sharp
blue eyes flashed into visibility on the screen.

“Hello, Tony. What’s up?”

“Got the camera-ship ready for the take-off?”

“Sure.”

“Well, here are some more supplies I want you to get. Photostat it.”

Quade pressed Udell’s list face down against the screen. After a moment
Wolfe said, “Got it.”

Von Zorn seized the paper and began scanning it. Abruptly he emitted the
anguished howl of a disemboweled wolf.

“Wait, Tony!” he cried desperately. “Not that! Venusian cochineal at a
hundred dollars a pint, current quotation? Use surrogate red. It’s
almost as good, and we don’t need—”

“I want everything—understand?” Quade said to the televisor. “Don’t
leave out a thing.”

Stabbed in the budget, Von Zorn spun toward Kathleen Gregg.

“Next he’ll want diamond lenses and radium paint for technicolor
effects, I suppose. Thirty-odd concentrated aqueous dyes—and they won’t
even show on the celluloid!”

“The Zonals spend a lot of time underwater,” Quade said patiently. “And
underwater camera work under alien conditions is tricky. You’ve got to
experiment with the right dyes and special filters and lenses before you
can get complete submarine clarity.”

“You’ve ordered enough concentrated dye to color the Pacific,” Von Zorn
mourned. “Lake Erie at least. Why couldn’t Udell have found the right
dye before he broke his contract?”

“Broke his contract?” Kathleen said wonderingly. “He didn’t—”

“He’s dead, isn’t he?” Von Zorn snarled and went off, as Quade rather
suspected, to beat a child star—any child star who wasn’t big enough to
be dangerous.

Quade got busy preparing for the expedition.




                              CHAPTER III
                            _Location Site_


Being the sixth satellite of Saturn, Titan is unpleasantly cold. It gets
no heat from its major, since Saturn’s average temperature is 180° below
zero F. But there are occasional volcanic areas, and in one of these,
amid geysers and steaming lakes, is the only settlement of humans on
Titan, New Macao, a roaring bordertown.

Most of the moon remains unexplored. There are continents and islands
and iron-cold seas whose vast depth as well as the tidal pull of Saturn
keep unfrozen. Maps on the satellite are mostly blank, with the outlines
of the continents sketched in and a few radar-located landmarks
indicated. Perhaps two dozen mining companies work some of the volcanic
regions.

Equatoria, a continent as large as Africa, stretches from latitudes 45°
north to 32° south. Udell had clearly marked on his chart the position
of his Titan camp, a valley near the equator on the outskirts of Devil’s
Range, a broad mountainous belt stretching across the equator for three
hundred miles.

So Quade brought down his camera ship, a gleaming, transparent-nosed
ovoid, in a five-mile-wide shallow basin clearly of volcanic origin.
Steaming geyser plumes feathered up from the rocky floor. Towering
cliffs of ice ringed the valley.

In the center a few shacks stood, but there was no sign of life. Though
the atmosphere was breathable, Quade, remembering the mysterious virus,
issued orders for continual wearing of spacesuits outside the ship.
Moreover, he installed antiseptic baths in the spacelocks, in which
every member of the crew had to dunk himself before reentering the
vessel.

“We’re not near New Macao, are we?” Wolfe asked, a wistful gleam in his
blue eyes as he peered through the transparent hull.

Quade grinned.

“Nope. We’re on the other side of the satellite. Why? Thirsty?”

“Kind of.”

“Better stay away from New Macao liquor,” Quade said solemnly. “Know
what plasmosin is? It’s the fibre that holds the cells, of your body
together. One shot of Martian absinthe, New Macao version, and the
plasmosin lets go. You fall apart. Very bad.”

“Yeah?” Wolfe said, wide-eyed. “Gee, I’d like to try it.”

Quade chuckled and glanced at the instrument panel. “That’s funny,” he
said suddenly.

“Eh?” Wolfe followed the other’s gaze. The needle of a gauge was
jumping. “Radiation, eh?”

“Radiation. Dunno what type. The Geiger counters are quiet, so it either
doesn’t register or it’s too weak to be dangerous.” Quade fiddled with
the instruments. “It’s coming from the south. We passed over a
good-sized crater a while back, didn’t we?”

“That’s right. It wasn’t volcanic, either. Meteoric. Suppose there’s a
radioactive meteor buried down under it?”

“Possibly. But it doesn’t look like ordinary radioactivity. Let’s see.”
Quade tested. “No alpha, beta or gamma types. It’s too weak to bother
us, but have one of the men check on it. How about going outside? Get
your suit.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Outside the ship Quade and Wolfe sweated in the protective armor, till
the refrigo-thermal systems got hold. Then they felt better. These were
light-weight outfits, designed for protection against temperature and
poisonous atmospheres, not the bulky, reinforced spacesuits used in
pressure-work. Saturn was almost at zenith. Quade looked up at the
ringed planet, squinting against the wan, yet curiously intense light.

“Have to use special filters,” he remarked. Diaphragms in the spherical
transparent helmets made it possible to converse. In this atmosphere it
wasn’t necessary to use radio.

Spongy pumice crackled under their feet. A bellow of crashing ice
thundered from the snowy ramparts to the west. It died and there was
silence. No movement stirred in the valley. Quade peered from under his
palm.

“There’s a lake,” he said. “The Zonals are amphibious. Let’s try it.”

If the surface of Titan seemed a bleak desert, the waters of the
satellite provided a strange contrast. The lake was an oval nearly a
mile long. Its surface seethed and bubbled with glowing light—no wonder
Udell had wanted to experiment with dyes! Plant-life made islands on the
surface. There was ceaseless activity in the water and, every few
moments, a bulky glistening body would appear briefly and vanish again.

Quade hesitated on the edge. There had been a tribe of dangerous Zonals,
he remembered. In fact, there were several, news from Macao had told
him—nomadic groups wandering murderously around from sea to lake to
river. But most of the Zonals were peaceful enough.

And in this lake—

“Tony!” Wolfe said sharply. “Look there!”

A head broke the water a few dozen feet away. A round, furry head like a
seal’s, with staring eyes. The nose was a snout, the mouth broad and
loose and lipless. But for all the animalism of the creature, the curve
of its head above the eyes, its obvious cranial index, showed that it
must possess a brain of some intelligence.

Quade and Wolfe remained motionless. The water broke into a seething
rush of bubbles and the Zonal came shoreward. It waded out and stood
knee-deep in water, staring blankly.

Its body was thoroughly anthropoid in outline, and curiously graceful in
its sleekly furred, streamlined contours. The Zonal was a little more
than five feet tall. Its hands and feet were huge and webbed.

The Zonal squirted jets of liquid from its eyes. Then it bent and
submerged its head briefly. Wolfe had involuntarily stepped back. Quade
spoke softly.

“Take it easy. Its eyeballs are hollow—it’s got an opaque diaphragm
stretched over ’em, like a kettle-drum. No lens. There’s a hole in the
center of the diaphragm to admit light, and the hollow’s kept filled
with water. Acts as a lens. It’s got perfect vision, though. And—look
at that thing on its back!”

The Zonal, having filled its hollow eyes with water, stood up again, but
Quade and Wolfe had already got a glimpse of the creature’s flight-sac,
a great sausage-shaped object that made it look humpbacked. The sac had
a gristly projection at one end that suddenly moved and twisted. The
Zonal, tiring of the two men’s company, disappeared.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Wolfe was left blinking at the place where it had been. Quade, who knew
what to expect, looked up. The creature was shooting through the air
like a streamlined spaceship, thirty feet high and going fast. Quade
pointed it out to his companion.

“Uh!” Wolfe said. “It’s worse than a flea. How does it do that?”

“Same way a squid does,” Quade explained, watching the Zonal fall like a
stone toward the ground. A dozen feet above a mound of gnarled lava the
amphibian seemed to halt in the air, then sank down gently, to stand
quietly surveying its surroundings.

“A squid?”

“Or a cuttlefish. Squirts water out of a sac—the old repulsion
principle. Only the Zonals are a little more scientific about it. Those
sacs on their back look soft, but they’re plenty tough.

“They’re filled with gas, continually renewed and manufactured by
letting in air and water to mix with the chemicals of their bloodstream.
When a Zonal wants to move fast he lets off a blast that has the same
effect a rocket-jet has on a spaceship.”

“They don’t have gravity screens, though,” Wolfe said.

Quade smiled.

“Well, no. Here’s this fellow back again.”

The Zonal came flying, bulletlike. Just before he reached the two men a
blast of hissing, suddenly-released gas braked it and the creature
plumped down easily not a yard away.

“Wonder if Udell taught ’em English?” Quade murmured. He put out his
hand gently. “Hello, there. We’re friends—understand? We’re friends.”

The Zonal touched Quade’s flexible-metal glove with a tentative, limber
finger. Then, gently gripping it in his webbed hand, he eyed it
carefully, lifted it to his mouth, and took a hearty bite.’

Quade yelped, jerked his hand back and nursed a bruised knuckle. The
Zonal, seemingly puzzled, lifted its shoulders in something suspiciously
like a shrug and rocketed back to the lava mound, where it squatted down
to think things over. Meanwhile a dozen new heads had popped up from the
lake near the shore.

“I thought you said they weren’t dangerous,” Wolfe observed.

“They’re not,” Quade gulped, moving his fingers experimentally. “Ouch!
That was just—ah—curiosity.”

“Well, what now?”

“We’ll unload the equipment. Get the cameras set up. The Zonals can wait
a bit. I want to think things over.”

Quade was hoping he didn’t sound as baffled as he felt. He had hoped
that Udell might have educated the amphibians somewhat, but apparently
the creatures were dumber than apes—a lot dumber. Somehow that didn’t
jibe with the sizable brain-cases of the Zonals. Their cranial indices
seemed to hint that there was intelligence in those sleek furry
heads—and Udell had managed to use that savvy. But how?

How, indeed?




                               CHAPTER IV
                               _Crackup_


Quade had arranged the compact two-man cruiser as a miniature replica of
the giant camera ship and carrying identical equipment. It was a
complete traveling laboratory, with built-in cameras and searchlights
that could stab out from every angle through the transparent nose.
During space flights it remained in its cradle within the larger vessel,
but now it rested on the lava plain near by, ready for a take-off.

Three days had passed and Quade was still stumped. He couldn’t penetrate
the wall of stupidity that shielded the Zonals from all advances. Once
or twice he thought he was making some headway with the first Zonal they
had encountered—whom Wolfe had irreverently dubbed Speedy. But Speedy,
though extremely curious, shot off like a rocket whenever Quade felt he
was getting somewhere.

In the great camera-ship Quade was donning his protective armor. He had
decided to make a survey of the surrounding terrain in the little
cruiser, on the chance that Udell’s trained Zonals might have wandered
away. The icy rampart was no barrier to them, for they rocketed over it
like birds.

Wolfe, leaning against a table stacked with experimental apparatus,
looked tired.

“Want me to go along, Tony?” he asked.

“You’d better stay here and keep things moving,” Quade said.

“What things?”

“Yeah, I know. Everything’s ready for shooting. We could roll any
time—except for the Zonals. I’ve got to find some way—”

Quade, struggling into his suit, lurched into a cabinet and deftly
caught a small bottle as it fell.

“Neo-curare. Don’t want to smash that. I may use it on myself if I have
to face Von Zorn without a picture.”

“Tony,” Wolfe said hastily. “I think I see Kathleen Gregg.”

“_What!_”

Quade whirled awkwardly, peering through the ship’s nose. A gyroplane
had landed and a slim figure in gleaming space-armor was clambering out.
It was, indeed, Kathleen.

“_Blast!_” Quade said, lurching toward a port. Halfway out he remembered
the neo-curare and hastily stuck it in one of the self-sealing pockets
in his suit. Pumice ground under his heels. The gyroplane, he saw, was
already surging up, angling toward the ice barrier. Kathleen was
trotting along briskly, but there was a certain hesitancy in the look
she gave Quade.

He halted in front of the girl. She smiled.

“Why, hello, Tony.”

“Just what are you doing here?” Quade asked. “Or should I guess?”

“It’s sweet of you to say so,” Kathleen observed, tilting her nose
Saturnward. “As a matter of fact, I got rather tired hanging around—”

“So you thought you’d drop in and say hello,” Quade finished for her.
“Now you can turn around and say goodbye and go home.”

“How?”

Quade peered after the departed gyroplane.

“How’d you get here?”

“Took a tramp ship to New Macao and hired a pilot to fly me the rest of
the way.”

“Okay,” Quade said. “See that two-man camera ship? You’re going to march
into it and I’m going to fly you back to New Macao and put you on a
Sunward ship. Catch?”

“Won’t,” Kathleen said, starting to run. Quade deftly caught her, lifted
her kicking figure, and carried her to the cruiser. He dumped her in it
and turned to Wolfe, who had followed.

“Be back as soon as I can. Keep things moving.”

“Right. Hello, Kathleen,” Wolfe said pleasantly. “Goodbye now.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

He shut the port and departed. Quade silently turned to the controls and
lifted the ship. Kathleen, standing beside him, was not silent. She
finished by saying that her engagement to Quade was off, and that he was
a rat.

“Sure I am,” Quade said. “But this is my job and I think it’s a little
dangerous. I’m sure I can handle it. Just the same, I don’t want you
around. For one thing you distract me and for another I’m still
wondering about that virus disease that killed Udell.”

Kathleen sniffed.

“Ha. Hey! We’re being followed.”

Quade threw a magnifying plane on the scanner. A sleek projectile was
rocketing along after the camera cruiser.

“Oh, that’s Speedy,” Quade said. “One of the Zonals. He won’t follow us
long.”

But this proved inaccurate. Speedy stayed on the trail for twenty miles
before he was lost in the distance. Then nothing was visible but the
frigid, Cyclopean peaks of the Devil’s Range, icy and alien in the pale
light of Saturn.

Things began to happen with alarming suddenness.

There are plenty of safety devices on spacecraft, but these depend on
the assurance that you have a skilful and a conscious operator. Quade
was skilful enough, but unfortunately he was knocked cold when the
vessel sideslipped in a sudden blast of air, powerful as a cyclone, that
screamed up from the Devil’s Range. A geyser-heated valley below made a
thermal of racing air that created a maelstrom where the icy atmosphere
of Titan met it.

The camera cruiser turned sidewise and Quade went spinning into the
controls. His head banged against his helmet, which made him lose all
interest in the fact that the ship was plunging down.

Kathleen couldn’t do much about it, though she tried hard enough. She
was wedged under a tangle of apparatus, which imprisoned her but saved
her from serious injury when the ship struck, with a splash that sent
water leaping high.

Creamy, luminous liquid crept over the ship’s nose. An oddly-shaped fish
came to stare in pop-eyed amazement. Then it swam hastily away.

The ship grounded. Kathleen fought her way free and scrambled up the
tilted floor to where Quade lay. There was blood oozing from his head,
and Kathleen quickly removed the helmet and used the first-aid kit. But
Quade remained stubbornly unconscious.

Two courses were left. Kathleen could fly the ship back to the camp or
she could radio for help. She tried both, but without success. The
controls were smashed, the gravity plates warped and broken.

The cruiser’s day of usefulness was over. The radio was hash. A
telephoto camera was strewn in sections about the room and some of the
carboys of concentrate-dye had torn free from their moorings and were
broken. The floor was awash with yellow and pink fluid.

Kathleen peered up through the ship’s nose. The surface of the lake
beneath which they lay wasn’t far above, she judged. If she could swim
up—that would be easy in the airtight suit. But what about Tony?

He wouldn’t drown in ten seconds. She inflated both of the suits with
oxygen, dragged Quade into the portal lock and shut the valve behind her
with a futile hope that, if the atmosphere stayed in the ship, it might
rise of its own accord, or at least that it would be easier to salvage
the equipment. She opened the outer door and went head over heels into
the rush of water. Somehow she kept hold of Quade’s arm.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Luckily, the lock was angled so that they slid out of their own accord,
buoyed up by the oxygen. Quade, still unconscious, blew bubbles. With
panic beginning to dry her throat, Kathleen tightened her grip on his
suit and they shot up like rockets into clear, cool Saturnlight.

Quade was torn away from the girl’s clutch. She blinked and stared
around. He was floating only a few yards away, his face submerged. Lying
flat on the surface, Kathleen paddled to him, dragged his head up in the
crook of her arm and awkwardly made for the shore.

Several sleek objects appeared above the surface and watched her
speculatively. But they were somewhat different from the Zonals Quade
had already encountered. Their heads were flattened, their jaws heavier.
Altogether they lacked the suggestion of good nature and humanity that
the other Zonals had possessed. But they did not attack, for which
Kathleen was duly grateful. She finally reached the beach and dragged
Quade ashore.

He had swallowed little water, being unconscious, and with a small gasp
Kathleen sat down beside him, weak with relief and reaction. She looked
around.

They were in a crater perhaps two miles in diameter, surrounded by
overhanging peaks and glaciers that seemed to be getting ready to rush
down in catastrophic destruction. This lake, a small one, was in the
very center. Plumes of steam flared up here and there, indicating
geysers.

Underfoot was the eternal lava, rising into a jungle labyrinth of
twisted malformations. In the distance Kathleen made out a great black
dome, faintly glistening. But she could not guess its nature.

Meanwhile the Zonals were swimming closer, in a semicircle. They emerged
from the water, dripping, to reveal another way in which they differed
from Quade’s Zonals. The sacs on their backs were shrunken and
atrophied.

Kathleen found it difficult to believe that the creatures were harmless.
She was eying the long, curved claws on the webbed hands, and the
tusklike, capable teeth bared by retracted lips. If she had been alone
she would not have waited to face the amphibians. As it was, Quade lay
unconscious beside her. Neither of the two was armed.

The Zonals slipped closer. There was, Kathleen thought, unmistakable
menace in their attitude. Growls rumbled from their throats. These
weren’t Udell’s tame Zonals, that was certain.

Hastily Kathleen looked about for a weapon, but all she could find was a
good-sized lava chunk. Hefting this, she stood up, waiting.

The Zonals, emerging from the water, closed in. Their growling was
louder now. One amphibian was in the forefront; Kathleen could see him
sinking lower as his furry legs bent and he tensed for a spring.

She hurled the rock.

The amphibian dodged easily. He sidled forward, and behind him came the
others.

A man’s voice shouted. There was the vicious crack of a whip. Again the
harsh voice roared a command. The Zonals hesitated—and Kathleen looked
back hastily to see a giant figure, clothed in rags, coming forward.
Gray-shot red hair bristled wildly. His face was turned toward the
Zonals, but the heavy broad shoulders spoke of enormous strength.

The whip cracked. The man bellowed an order.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Snarling, the Zonals drew back. Suddenly they broke and fled to the
lake. The man stood waiting till they had submerged and then turned to
Kathleen. He stood quietly facing her, the whip hanging lax.

And something in his face made the girl shiver a little. The features
were strong enough, even harshly handsome. But the glacial black eyes
were—disturbing. There was no trace of expression in them. They stared
like glazed jet marbles, cool and remote.

“My name’s Milo Sherman,” the man said. He glanced at the unconscious
Quade.

As Kathleen opened her mouth, Sherman halted her with an upraised palm.

“Better talk as we go. The Zonals are dangerous.” He laughed
unpleasantly. “They’re afraid of me, but I take no chances. Come on.” He
bent, hoisted Quade to his shoulders and started toward the glistening
dome Kathleen had already glimpsed. “Now talk,” he commanded.

Kathleen talked.

“I see,” Sherman said as they rounded a shoulder of lava. “You’re
unlucky. However, you’ll be safe for a while. There’s my castle, see?”

Fifty feet away the building loomed, a dome-shaped structure as high as
a six-story building. It seemed to be built of some gleaming black
substance, broken at intervals by round gaps. Sherman marched forward,
straight toward a blank wall.

No—not entirely blank—there was an inch-wide hole in it. And the hole
began to broaden as they approached, opening till it was a gaping
portal.

They stepped across the threshold. Behind them the hole shrank again,
like a sphincter. They were in a large room, bare except for a sloping
ramp that led up to a gap in the ceiling. A row of luminous spots glowed
in the walls.

Sherman went up the ramp. Kathleen was behind him, a little troubled
now, conscious of some unknown danger. Above, the room was larger,
lighted by similar lightspots in the walls. It was filled with a clutter
of junk—chairs, tables—some of them twisted and broken—most of them
rusty.

“Salvage,” Sherman said. He went to a corner, dropped Quade into a
shallow depression in the floor and tossed his whip aside. Quade’s body
sank down a few inches, as though into an air mattress.

“Well, take off your helmet,” Sherman said coolly. “Make yourself at
home. You’ll be here for life—since there’s no way of getting out of
this valley!”




                               CHAPTER V
                           _Perilous Valley_


Kathleen sat down limply on a rusty chair that squeaked under her
weight. Her fingers felt cold and clumsy as she unscrewed her helmet,
deflated the spacesuit and shook her hair free.

“No way out?” she said. “We could climb—”

“You could try it,” Sherman said, “till you got tired. The glaciers wall
us in. And they crumble. I broke my arm six years ago trying to escape.”

“Six years!”

“I’ve been here seven,” Sherman told her. “I’m the last survivor of the
patrol ship Kestrel, wrecked while making a forced landing in the
Devil’s Range. Three of us escaped with our lives from the crash—the
ship’s doctor, myself and another patrolman. Their graves are down the
valley a bit.” His eyes were blank.

“Seven years here, with the Zonals gradually losing their fear of me.
They multiply faster than I can kill them. Now I’ve got about eight
rounds of ammunition left—no, nine, I see.” He showed an old-fashioned
pistol.

“But the camera crew will search for us.”

“A tiny valley in three hundred miles of mountains? And your friends
won’t know where to look, from what you say? For all they know, you
might have crashed anywhere on Titan.”

He hesitated.

“I’d forgotten something. You’ve got to be inoculated immediately.
Otherwise you’ll just go crazy and die.”

Kathleen blinked. “Huh?”

“The plague—the one you say killed that man Udell and his crew. It
nearly killed us before the _Kestrel’s_ doctor got on the track. You’ve
got the virus in you now.”

“That’s impossible,” the girl said. “Unless we were infected since we
cracked up.”

“You were infected before you ever landed on Titan,” Sherman said
grimly. “The virus is a protein molecule that exists in living
organisms—Zonals and humans alike. Usually it’s harmless—a recessive
characteristic. But under the influence of a certain kind of radiation
the virus becomes actively malignant.”

“I don’t get it.”

Sherman had talked a good deal with the Kestrel’s doctor before the
latter died. He told Kathleen about the tobacco mosaic disease—how a
plant, suffering from common mosaic disease, may suddenly become victim
of a more virulent form—_acuba_—caused when the basic molecules change
their structure.

“It’s like that,” he said. “There’s a meteor on this continent which
emits rays that develop the latent, harmless virus in one into the
active, malignant form. That’s what originally wrecked the minds of the
Zonals, you know.” He noticed Kathleen’s pallor.

“Don’t worry too much about it. I’m still alive, you see. Our doctor
worked out a cure. The Zonals have antibodies in their
bloodstreams—antibodies strong enough to immunize a human. They
developed ’em, but not in time to save themselves from degeneration. I
prepared a fresh batch of serum yesterday—so come along and I’ll
inoculate you.”

“But—will Tony—”

“He’ll be safe here. The Zonals don’t dare come into my castle.”

Kathleen followed Sherman through another of the sphincter doors. She
was thinking of Wolfe and his crew. They were also exposed to the
meteoric radiation—which would eventually kill them unless they were
warned and immunized.

                 *        *        *        *        *

But when Kathleen told Sherman, he merely shrugged.

“We’re in prison here. No radio. No way of communication. Your ship’s
under water and wrecked. So—” He picked up a hypodermic syringe. “You
and your friend—what’s his name, Quade?—you’ll be safe enough, unless
the Zonals kill us. They can’t come in here.”

“This building? Who made it, anyway?”

“The Zonals,” Sherman said. “A long time ago. They were a plenty
intelligent race before the meteor landed and the plague hit them. I’ve
got an idea there used to be a lot of these castles on
Equatorial—bigger ones than this, too. It’s not exactly a building,
though. It’s alive.”

“Alive? How?”

“Hard to believe, isn’t it? I guess there’s nothing like these castles
anywhere else in the System.”

“The studio biologists make robot animals,” Kathleen said doubtfully.

“Yeah? These castles were made by the Zonals once—to live in. As though
a lot of blood corpuscles had got together and built a man to live in.
These castles don’t wear out and they don’t need electricity or air
conditioning—they’ve got everything. Notice how fresh the air is?”

“I hadn’t. But I do now.”

“That’s air conditioning. The castles breathe—they take in air, filter
out the harmful bugs and cool or heat or humidify it if necessary. You
don’t need windows for light, with those eye-spots in the walls.”

The syringe was ready. Sherman made an awkward but careful injection in
Kathleen’s arm.

“You’re safe enough now,” he said. “You’re immune. But you’ll need
occasional booster shots. I’ll fix up your friend next. Look around the
castle if you want—it’s safe enough, as long as you don’t go outside.”
He refilled the syringe and departed.

Kathleen sat down to wait for the inoculation-shock to wear off. It was
some time later when she heard a confused clamor from outside. Hastily
she rose, found the weakness had passed and hurried to the room where
she had left Quade. He still lay unconscious, the syringe at his side
and a wad of cotton still sticking to his bare arm. Sherman was gone.

Outside the yelling of the Zonals stilled. Sherman’s voice rose. The
growling began. It rose to a roar. The whip cracked violently, but the
noise did not stop, though it sank to a harsh murmur.

Presently Sherman came back into the room, dragging his whip. His eyes
were bleak as ever, but a muscle was twitching under his eye. Without
pausing he said, “You’ve set off the Zonals.”

“I did? How?”

“Ever since I landed here the food supply in the lake has been
diminishing. Before that, too, I suppose—but it got below the danger
point not long ago. The lake’s nearly cleaned out. There’s another
little pool ’way up at the end, but that’s empty too, now.

“The Zonals are hungry. Which adds up to the fact that they figure we’re
good to eat. I told ’em to go catch fish—there must be a few left—but
they didn’t understand me, of course.”

Kathleen gulped. Sherman grinned at her. He went through one of the
sphincter doors and came back with the whip in one hand and a long knife
in the other.

“I may have to fight,” he said. “Our little friends are getting anxious
outside. Here’s my gun. If they get past me—use it.”

The next ten minutes were far too long. It was impossible for Kathleen
to guess what was happening outside; she could only listen to the
muffled snarling and the incessant crack of Sherman’s whip. Once Quade
moaned and stirred and she turned hastily to him, but it was a false
alarm.

Sherman backed into sight. He was retreating very slowly, using both the
lash and his knife. Beyond him the Zonals pressed forward, snarling.

“Shall I shoot?” Kathleen asked softly.

“Not yet,” Sherman said without turning. “Save it till—”

He stopped talking, for the Zonals’ growling rose to a roar. They
flooded forward into the room, forcing Sherman to give ground. He swung
his whip—and it was caught, dragged from his hand. He went down under
the rush of the amphibians.

Then the creatures were everywhere. Before Kathleen had a chance to
fire, the gun was knocked out of her grip. The Zonals moved far faster
than she had anticipated. She struck out desperately, hearing Sherman’s
hoarse curses as he slugged and battled under a mound of Zonals.

And just then the gun exploded. A concerted wave of panic caught the
amphibians. They gave ground as the gun crashed again.

It was Quade, on his feet now, placing his shots accurately. The Zonals
were beginning to drift toward the door, a movement that grew into
flight and then to panic. In a minute or less the room was empty except
for the three humans.

Sherman got up, rocking unsteadily.

“Lucky I didn’t use the gun much,” he said. “They’re plenty afraid of
it. But we’re out of ammunition now.”

“A fine thing to wake up to,” Quade said, sitting down and turning a
pale green. “What’s been going on? Kathleen—”

She told him.




                               CHAPTER VI
                          _Poisoned Javelins_


It was indeed alarming news.

“Unarmed, eh?” Quade said when she had finished. Sherman had gone out of
the room, but now he came back in time to hear the words. He was
carrying a bundle of sharpened metal rods.

“Only these,” he said. “I ground ’em a long time ago.”

“Javelins? Mm-m.” Quade dug into a pocket of his spacesuit.
“Neo-curare,” he said, bringing out the bottle. “Lucky I brought it
along. If we smear some of this stuff on the points, it ought to account
for a few Zonals. It’s a fast-acting poison. Anything going on outside?”

There was nothing. They stood in the castle’s door-sphincter. As it
automatically widened, the barren wilderness of the valley became
visible. No Zonals were in sight. The lake glowed phosphorescently in
the distance.

“Here comes something,” Kathleen said.

With a swish and a thump something rocketed into view, plumping down
just outside the threshold. Quade stopped Sherman’s lifted javelin-arm.

“Hold on. He’s not dangerous. This is Speedy, one of my tame Zonals. He
must have trailed us here.”

It was Speedy, all right and Speedy was staring with wild curiosity at
Quade and the others. The contrast between this amphibian and the
degenerate Zonals of the valley was marked. The fangs and claws of the
decadent tribe didn’t show in Speedy, and his high-arched cranium hinted
at intelligence, not brutal ferocity alone.

“Pencil and paper, quick!” Quade said. “We’ve got a carrier pigeon
here!”

Sherman vanished. He reappeared in a moment, bearing a small metal
cylinder and a length of wire as well as writing equipment. Quade
hastily scribbled a note, thrust it into the cylinder and cautiously
approached Speedy.

The Zonal almost got away, but was betrayed by his suspicion that
Quade’s hand was good to eat. Quade held the amphibian firmly while he
fastened the cylinder to Speedy’s body and tried to keep his hands out
of reach of the nibbling mouth at the same time.

“Hope he doesn’t know how to untie knots,” Kathleen said. “How about it,
Tony? Will he head back for the camp?”

“I don’t know,” Quade said. “Still, that’s where he lives.” He released
the Zonal. “Blow. Take a walk. Rocket off!”

Speedy reached for the metal tube. Quade yelled and clapped his hands,
and the amphibian rocketed away in alarm. He came down fifty feet away,
near a mound of lava and went to work on the wire.

Quade started toward him, running. From behind the lava block came two
of the decadent Zonals, closing in on poor Speedy. He didn’t see them
until too late, and then he went down under the rush, fighting with
feeble valor.

Quade stopped. He couldn’t reach the battle in time, but he still held a
poisoned javelin. He hurled it at the struggling group.

Speedy yelped, waving a bleeding arm grazed by the metal point. Quade
was a poor marksman with this unfamiliar weapon.

But Sherman was a better one. His javelin struck one of the attacking
Zonals and got him through the heart. The other, taking alarm, fled.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Speedy lay limp and unconscious. Quade started to run again, hearing
footsteps behind him. He felt slightly sick. The last chance for escape
was gone now. Then his eye caught a flicker of motion. Speedy wasn’t
dead. He grunted, stood up, swaying, and stared around.

A yelling came from the lake.

“Come on,” Sherman said urgently. “Let’s get back to the castle. We
haven’t a chance here in the open.”

Speedy suddenly rocketed away. Quade saw him land beside Kathleen at the
castle’s doorway. The two men fled, hearing the thud of racing feet and
the roars of the Zonals rising in volume. They reached the castle—and
Quade got the shock of his life.

“They try kill us, yes?” an unfamiliar voice said hoarsely.

Quade looked at Kathleen, then at Sherman. They, too, were staring.
Again the voice repeated its question. Slowly Quade turned to meet the
unblinking gaze of Speedy.

“This bad place,” the Zonal said. “Better go.”

“He talked,” Kathleen murmured unbelievingly. “He’s intelligent, Tony!”

“Intelligent,” Speedy repeated. “Yes. Your language hard. But Earth man
Udell taught us some words. Speak.”

Quade swallowed.

“Yeah. You speak, all right. But how? Have you been playing dumb all
along?”

Speedy looked puzzled.

“Earth man Udell stick us with needle.”

“That’s it,” Quade said abruptly. “So that was Udell’s trick!” He
glanced around. “We can’t get out. Our ship’s wrecked. Understand?”

Speedy nodded.

“Understand. I get help.”

“You know where the camp is?”

“I know. I go there now. Tell men—bring them here. Yes.”

He rocketed up and was gone. His sleek figure was visible swooping
toward the ice barrier. Then he had crossed it and vanished.

“Let’s go inside,” Quade said. “I’d hate it if the Zonals ate us before
Wolfe got here.”

Inside the castle Quade divided the javelins and passed them around.

“One mystery’s solved,” he said. “There won’t be any trouble in filming
Sons of Titan now. The Zonals are intelligent—but it takes a shot of
neo-curare to make ’em that way.”

“A poison?” Kathleen asked. “Spill it, Tony.”

“A poison to us, not to the Zonals. They’ve a different sort of
physiology. The neo-curare doesn’t hurt ’em. It just liberates their
subconscious.”

“Huh?” Sherman said.

“Here’s the angle. Scientists got on the track a long time ago—’way
back before nineteen-forty. They experimented with a dog—trained him to
do certain things at the sound of a bell, a conditioned reflex, you
know. Then they doped him with curare and developed other habit-patterns
in his brain, also set in action by the bell.

“They proved the two had two independent behavior-systems in his
mind—that both could be trained to react to the same stimulus and do it
independently of each other. It works like that with the Zonals.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Kathleen blinked. Quade went on.

“It’s logical enough. The virus that wrecked the Zonal culture ruined
only their conscious mind—made ’em idiots. Their subconscious minds
weren’t harmed. They still retain their potential power. But they’re
subconscious, of course—blanketed.

“The neo-curare simply inhibits the higher centers of the brain, the
part that was wrecked by the virus, and releases the subconscious. And
while that’s in control the Zonals are intelligent! This will mean
rehabilitation for the whole race, someday. Udell taught and trained ’em
while they were doped with neo-curare.

“So all we have to do is follow Udell’s lead. When we get back to camp
we’ll first of all immunize the men with the antivirus and then break
out the neo-curare. We can finish _Sons of Titan_ in a few weeks!”

“You forgot something,” Sherman said. “One of the degenerate Zonals got
inoculated with neo-curare too, just now.”

“Well, the javelin also went through his heart,” Quade said. “You can’t
be smart when you’re dead. I dunno about that but I’ve got a suspicion
the neo-curare won’t have the same effect on these Zonals of yours.
They’re so decadent that even their subconscious may be bestialized.

“They’re almost a different race, as far beneath the regular Zonals as a
hyena is beneath a human being. We can try it out and now’s our chance,
because they’re attacking again. So we can’t wait till Wolfe arrives.
Kathleen, our ship’s wrecked, isn’t it?”

“I think so,” the girl said dubiously. “The plates are smashed.”

“Um. I may be able to do some repair work. It’s worth trying. Your
helmet’s okay, isn’t it?”

Kathleen nodded.

“But you’re not going outside, are you?”

Quade was donning his spacesuit. He pulled the transparent helmet into
place.

“I am,” he said through the diaphragm. “Our javelins won’t keep the
Zonals off long unless the neo-curare will do the trick—and I’m going
to find out. At worst, even if our ship’s wrecked, there’s a gun or two
in the cabin.” He turned to Sherman. “Take it easy. Luck.”

“I’m going with you,” Kathleen decided.

“There’s only one helmet,” Quade informed her. “I’ll be safe enough in
this spacesuit. You stay here till I get back, understand?”

“All right,” the girl said obediently and Quade departed.

“First time in her life she ever did what I told her,” he thought,
plodding toward the lake. This job was going to be dangerous, regardless
of what he had told Kathleen. If the Zonals attacked—

He went on. A number of the Zonals trailed him. One ran forward, and
Quade spun quickly and threw his javelin. He didn’t want to kill. He was
making an experiment. The sharp-ground point ripped into the amphibian’s
leg and the Zonal fell instantly.

Quade waited. After a minute or more the creature hoisted itself
laboriously upright. It had fallen behind its fellows, who were still
following Quade.

It ran after them, limping. Its low snarling mingled with the menacing
noises of the others. One glimpse of the amphibian’s brutal face told
Quade that his guess had been right. These Zonals were so decadent that
not even neo-curare could make them intelligent.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Shrugging, he turned to the lake. A gleam of metal told him the location
of the sunken spaceship. Quade waded in. The luminous water seethed
about his knees, his waist—closed over his helmet. That didn’t matter.
The chemicals in the suit supplied plenty of air.

He saw the ship, a black shadow, looking like a great resting shark on
the bottom. Thanks to the luminosity of the water it was surprisingly
clear; he could make out details easily. And now he could hear noises
that must mean pursuit. The Zonals, he thought, were amphibians.

They swam down, keeping a safe distance for the time as Quade
manipulated the space-lock. As the Zonals saw him disappearing they came
in fast. Quade got another javelin from his belt and used it
efficiently.

But after that he was reduced to using his fists, which was not too
effective under water. The Zonals began dragging him out of the lock.
Quade reached out, caught a lever, and tried to anchor himself. He
couldn’t.

But inside the ship there were weapons.

He struck out frantically at another lever. The inside port opened. The
sealed ship became unsealed in an instant, and the lake poured in,
carrying with it Quade and a dozen Zonals. By the time the water had
settled, a steady stream of amphibians were swimming down through the
open lock, and the water had changed color to streaky yellow and pink
that gradually merged into an ambiguous darker hue.

Briefly puzzled, Quade noticed that two carboys of the concentrated
aqueous dye had been smashed. Also, Kathleen had left the ship’s lights
on, so the Zonals, temporarily distracted, were able to see Quade and to
converge on him.

They got him down, clawing at his suit with their talons. That didn’t
worry him. The armor was tough. But one of the Zonals, after breaking a
tooth on Quade’s helmet, got a bright idea. He found a metal bar
somewhere and began smashing it down on Quade’s head. He used it like a
piston, so that water pressure was minimized, and the helmet began to
show a webwork of fine cracks.

Quade twisted, got hold of the bar and tussled it free. He levered
oxygen into his suit hurriedly. Buoyancy took over, and he shot up out
of the heap of Zonals and bounced off the ceiling. But the amphibians
instantly swam up after him.

It was then that Quade noticed the row of carboys in their wall-cradles
beneath him....

He broke them. Using the metal bar, he floundered and fought and smashed
his way through the Zonals down the line, while blue and green and
translucent orange flowed out from the carboys, staining the water
brilliantly. It was tremendously concentrated, this aqueous dye.

And, while each dye had been made to blend transparently with water,
there is a simple principle of the color-wheel that added up to complete
opacity. If you mix a lot of colors, you get black. This wasn’t dead
black, but it was darker and thicker than a Venusian fog on Darkside.

Within moments the Zonals were fighting by touch alone. Luckily for
Quade, they had no scent-organs worth mentioning, or could not use them
under water. And they did not know the spaceship, while Quade could have
found his way from bow to stern blindfolded.

He was blindfolded. But the Zonals were in a worse predicament as Quade
found when he opened the arsenal, abstracted a few weapons and dodged
his way out of the dun-colored lake to shore. Some of the amphibians
were emerging on land, but they were wandering around vaguely, with
helpless, groping motions.

They had hollow eyeballs and used water for lenses. Thus, since they’d
sucked in the dark-dyed lake-water by now, they were blinded until they
could find clear liquid of some sort!

                 *        *        *        *        *

Hordes of them were emerging from the lake. They were grouping together
now, stumbling up the valley toward the pool at the upper end. There
they could regain their vision. But it would take time, and Quade, his
arms loaded with blasters and thermo-pistols, grinned tightly and
started back toward the castle.

No Zonals were visible when he reached it. Kathleen and Sherman ran
forward to meet him. Quade let the guns fall.

“Wait’ll I take off this suit,” he said, and unzipped himself. Sherman
was lovingly loading the weapons as Kathleen helpfully tried to pull off
Quade’s helmet without loosening the bolts.

“Okay,” Quade said, beating her off. “I’ll do it. There! Now. Let me
tell you what happened.” He explained. Sherman whistled.

“Blind man’s buff! That should hold the Zonals for a while. They’ll be
all right after they get to the upper pool and rinse their eyeballs out,
but it’ll take a while. And with these guns—” He touched a
thermo-pistol with expert fingers. Then, suddenly, he looked at Quade.

“I just thought—I hadn’t realized it before! I’ll be getting out of
here! After seven years—”

The big shoulders shook.

“I’ll take this gear inside,” Sherman said.

He didn’t finish. Carrying the guns, he went into the castle and the
portal shrank behind him.

“Give him time,” Quade said slowly. “Let’s wait here for the ship.”

So they did. And when it loomed over the glaciers Kathleen sighed,
relaxed against Quade’s shoulder.

“Now we’re all set, huh?”

“Right,” Quade told her. “Because you’re going back Sunward with
Sherman. He’s got to report to Patrol headquarters and I’m going to have
him take you with him.”

“_Tony!_” Kathleen said reproachfully. “You don’t love me any more!”

“I adore you madly,” Quade said, ignoring the sputtering girl as he
signaled the approaching ship. “You hate me. Our engagement’s broken
again. You’ll get Von Zorn to blacklist me. You’ll elope with a crooner.
I know exactly what you’re trying to say. Just the same, you’re going
Sunward with Sherman. I’ve got a picture to shoot! You hear me?”

“Of course, Tony,” murmured Kathleen, who was already laying new plans.
“But I just happened to remember. What about the Planetary Quarantine
laws? We’ve all been infected with this Titan virus and, even though
we’ve got the antitoxin, we’ve got to stay on Titan for thirty days—or
is it sixty? Don’t look at me like that! I can’t help it, Tony—honest I
can’t—it’s the law—!”

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TROUBLE ON TITAN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
