The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dark Dawn, by Keith Hammond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dark Dawn

Author: Keith Hammond

Release Date: May 27, 2022 [eBook #68184]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan, Alex White & the online
             Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
             https://www.pgdpcanada.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DARK DAWN ***





                               DARK DAWN

                           By Henry Kuttner
              Writing under the pseudonym Keith Hammond.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Thrilling Wonder Stories, August 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

               _Blinded by an atomic blast, Dan Gresham
                joins forces with the radiant Swimmers
                to preserve an undersea civilization!_


The _Albacore_ was eight hundred miles out of Suva, feeling her way
through the Pacific toward a destination unmarked except on the charts.
She was a Navy cruiser jury-rigged into a floating laboratory, Navy
manned, but carrying a dozen specialized technicians as passengers.

For days she had waited outside the danger area, till circling planes
radioed word that the test atomic blast had apparently subsided. Then
the _Albacore_ went into a flurry of preparations. It was a miracle that
the watch had sighted Gresham in his rubber boat, and a triple miracle
that he was alive.

His eyes bandaged, he sat out on deck, while Black, the neurologist,
leaned on the rail beside him and stared aft. Presently Black took out a
pack of cigarettes, automatically held it out to Gresham, and then
remembered that the man was blind.

“Cigarette?” he said.

“Yes, thanks. Is that you, Dr. Black?” Gresham’s voice was very low.

“Uh-huh. Here. I was watching that shark. He’s followed us from Suva.”

“Big one?”

“One of the biggest I ever saw,” Black said. “That’s the baby who tried
to take a chunk out of you when we picked you up. He kept biting at our
oars!”

“A pity he didn’t get me,” Gresham said. He tossed the cigarette away.
“No use. If I can’t see the smoke, I can’t enjoy it.”

The neurologist studied his patient.

“We don’t know that you’re permanently blinded, after all. This is so
new.”

“I was looking straight at it,” Gresham said bitterly. “It must have
been miles and miles away, but I could feel it burning my eyes out in
one flash. Don’t tell me!”

“All right. I won’t. But this is a completely new type of atomic blast.
It isn’t uranium. It’s a controlled chain reaction based on an
artificial element—there must be new types of radiation involved.”

“Fine. The next time there’s a war, we can blind everybody.” Gresham
laughed grimly. “I’ll be sorry for myself for a few months, probably.
Then I’ll get a Seeing-Eye dog and become a useful member of society
again. Huh!” He paused. When he spoke again his voice was different,
doubtful, as if he didn’t quite realize he spoke aloud. “Or maybe not,”
he said. “Maybe I’ll never be—useful—any more. Maybe I’m not just
imagining....”

“Imagining?” Black said, interested. “What?”

Gresham jerked his bandaged face away.

“Nothing!” he declared sharply. “Forget it.”

Black shrugged. “Tell me about yourself, Gresham,” he suggested. “We
haven’t had much time yet to get acquainted. How did you happen to be
out here just now?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Gresham shook his head irritably. “Just at the wrong spot and the wrong
time? Maybe it was meant that way from the start. Predestination—how do
I know? Oh, I had enough after the war. I bummed around the islands.
I—like the sea.” His voice softened. “Like isn’t strong enough. I love
the sea. I can’t stay away from it. There’s a fascination—I signed on
here and there as a deck-hand, a stevedore—I didn’t care what. I just
wanted to soak myself in the big things. Sun and sea and sky. Well, I
can still feel the sun and the wind, and I can hear the water. But I
can’t see it.”

There was no real conviction in the way he finished that last sentence.
He turned his bandaged eyes a little to Black’s left and his face grew
strained, as if he were looking at something far out at sea.

“You know about the radar sonics, don’t you?” the neurologist said.

“Oh, sure. I’ll learn to bounce a radar beam around me and keep from
walking into walls. But—” Gresham’s voice died. He seemed to be staring
as if through the bandages and his own blindness at something far away.
In spite of himself Black turned to follow that blinded stare. And at a
great distance off he saw, or thought he saw something in the glare of
the sun-track splash water and dive....

“Dr. Black,” Gresham was saying in that strained, doubtful voice. “Dr.
Black, how are you on psychiatry?”

“Why, fair.” Black kept the surprise out of his tone with an effort.
“Why?”

“Have you noticed any symptoms of—aberration in me?”

“Nothing unusual. Nervous shock, of course. That atomic blast catching
you certainly would have caused a strain.”

Gresham said, “After the blast went off I floated for I don’t know how
long before you picked me up. I—started to imagine things. Delirium,
you could say. But I don’t know. I—forget it, will you? Maybe later
I’ll feel like talking. Just forget I said anything, Dr. Black.”

After all, there was nothing to talk about, to put into coherent words.
For what had happened was inexplicable. It was part of the terra
incognita that the key of nuclear energy had unlocked.

Even Daniel Gresham, drowsing the years away in his tropical lotuslands,
could not help hearing about the new atomic experiments. He had stopped
keeping track of time back in 1946, because around the archipelagoes
time was a variable, and hours could last for seconds or months,
depending on whether you were at a _kava-kava_ festival with the
golden-skinned Melanesians or simply stretched flat on the warm deck,
while white canvas billowed overhead and waves splashed quietly along
the keel.

But the radio wouldn’t stop talking. It talked about the uranium piles
constructed for experiments, and the new lithium hydride methods, and
the technicians who were endlessly charting, testing, studying—and
finding fresh mysteries always beyond. And this latest test—a
completely new type of atomic blast, one that had never existed before
on earth, except, perhaps, so long ago that the planet was a white-hot,
molten mass.

Briefly, the holocaust had blazed out and vanished. But it had left
traces in the instruments planted in the path of the fury, and it had
left its trace, too, in an intricate, sensitive instrument cage inside
Daniel Gresham’s skull.

Thoughts can be measured; they are electric energy. The machine that
transmits them can be functionally altered. And, adrift on his raft,
Gresham had found a very strange substitute for his lost vision....

The _Albacore’s_ boat came back with recording instruments from a
floating buoy, and Black paced slowly up and down the deck, studying a
coil of paper and trying to ignore the piping of sea-birds that flapped
overhead, and the look of strained attention on Gresham’s face. It
didn’t belong there, on a blind man’s face. Gresham sat as he had sat
yesterday, bandaged eyes turned toward the sea beyond the boat as if he
could see something out there invisible to ordinary eyes.

“Doctor, what does that look like out there?” he asked suddenly.

Startled, Black followed the direction of his pointing finger.

“Why, a porpoise, I think. It—no, now it’s gone.” He stared at his
patient in amazement. “Gresham, are you still blind?”

Gresham laughed softly. “There’s a bandage over my eyes, isn’t there? Of
course I’m blind.”

“Then how did you know about the porpoise?”

“It isn’t a porpoise.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Black took a long breath. “What the devil’s the matter with you,
Gresham?” he said.

“I wish I knew. I—” Gresham’s voice hesitated. Then he said with a
sudden rush, “You could call it hallucination. I can see things. But not
with my own eyes.”

“Yes?” Black’s tone was hushed. He was terribly afraid of interrupting
this mood of explanation. “Go on.”

“Right now, for example,” Gresham said in his soft voice, “I’m seeing
this ship, from about half a mile away. I can see the smoke, and the
little figures on deck. I can see myself, and you. From a distance. Once
in a while a wave blocks my sight. You’re holding something white.”

Black stared off into the blue distance, where what had seemed a
porpoise had broken water once and vanished. He could see nothing but
ocean now.

“I told you I started imagining things on the raft,” Gresham went on. “I
kept seeing things from different angles. I knew I was blind, but there
were flashes ... green vistas ... blue sky and white clouds....”

“Memory. Imagination.”

“It isn’t a porpoise,” Gresham said.

Black made an effort and pulled his mind into better coordination.

“Now listen,” he said. “All right. You were in the direct path of some
new radiations. These figures—” He rustled the paper in his hand. “They
don’t check exactly. There _was_ an untyped form of radiation in this
area after the atomic blast. But—” He went off at a tangent. “It isn’t
a porpoise? What is it, then?”

“I don’t know. It’s intelligent. It’s trying to communicate with me.”

“Good Heavens!” Black said, genuinely startled now. The look he bent
upon Gresham was dubious.

“I know, I know.” Gresham must have sensed in the silence that doubtful
glance. “Maybe I’m making it all up. I did spot the—porpoise—but maybe
my hearing’s improved. The rest—well, I haven’t got any proof except
what I know I’ve seen—and felt. I tell you, it’s something intelligent
out there. It’s trying to communicate and it can’t.” He rubbed his
forehead above the bandages, his face taking on the old look of strain.
“I can’t make sense out of it. Too—alien, I guess. But it’s trying
hard....” Suddenly he laughed. “I can imagine how you’re looking at
me. Would you like to try some tests, Dr. Black? Knee-jerks, maybe?”

“Come on below with me,” Black said briefly. Gresham laughed again and
got up....

An hour later they were back on deck. Black looked worried.

“Listen, Gresham,” he said earnestly. “I don’t know what’s happened to
you. I admit that. The encephalogram was—puzzling. Your brain emits
radiations that don’t check with anything we’ve seen before. Some
peculiar things are possible, theoretically. For instance, a radio isn’t
really likely to pick up transmitted waves, but it does. And telepathy’s
theoretically possible. Suppose your brain has been altered a little by
your exposure to the atomic blast. There are powers latent in the human
mind, new senses that we know little about.”

“I suppose you have to find new words for it,” Gresham said as Black
stumbled and paused. “But I don’t care what the scientific diagnosis is.
I can see again. Not with my own eyes. But I can see.”

He was silent for a moment, and to Black it seemed that the blind man’s
whole face looked rapt, as if he gazed upon things more beautiful than a
man with eyes ever saw. When Gresham spoke, his voice was rapt, too.

“I can see!” he repeated, almost to himself. “I don’t care what else
happens. Something alive and intelligent and—and desperate is near me.
I see through its eyes. Its thoughts are too different to understand.
It’s trying to tell me something, and it can’t. I don’t care. All I care
about is seeing, and the things I see.”

He hesitated.

“Beautiful,” he murmured. “All my life I’ve loved beautiful things.
That’s why you found me out here, in the tropics, away from cities and
ugliness. And now!” He laughed a little and his voice changed.

“If I could see your face, I wouldn’t be talking this way,” he said.
“But I can’t, so I can say what I feel. Beauty is all that matters, and
in a way I’m glad even this has happened, if it means I can go on seeing
things like—like this.”

“Like what?” Black leaned forward tensely. “Tell me.”

Gresham shook his head. “I can’t. There aren’t any words.”

The two men sat silent for awhile, Black frowning and studying the rapt,
blind face before him, Gresham staring through his bandages and through
the eyes of another being, at things he could not speak of.

Something glistened among the waves, very far away, turned over in the
water and sank again.

                 *        *        *        *        *

The next morning, Gresham did not awaken. To Black it resembled
catalepsy. The man lay quietly, his heart faintly beating, his
respiration almost stopped. Once or twice a ripple of motion crossed his
features and he grimaced. But that was all. He lay for a long while,
half-alive.

But he was double alive, triply—a hundredfold—elsewhere.

Around dawn it began to happen to him, he thought afterward. He felt
first a something reaching out for him. His internal vision kept
catching glimpses and then snapping shut again like a camera lens. There
was a thought, beating against a barrier, trying to get through to him.
But it was too alien. It could not reach through.

Gresham’s half-sleeping mind could not understand. He reached out into
other minds around him, seeking contact. Bird minds—sparks of life
rising and falling on the winds, dim, formless bits of cloud. And other
small minds, in the waters, vague, weaving through green voids. But in
the end he always came back to the Swimmer.

And in the end, the Swimmer must have realized it could not communicate,
knew at last there was only one way left. It had to show him what it
wanted to tell. And there was only one way to show him.

So it swam down, down in the pearly light of dawn, with the sea and sky
an enormous emptiness and the _Albacore_ a small dark shape miles away,
and Gresham’s body hidden within it, asleep, while his mind sank with
the Swimmer through the fathomless seas.

Down and down, into the great deeps under the atolls, where abysses lie
deeper than Everest is high. The Swimmer could plumb them, for the
Swimmer was not human. Intelligent, yes, but—different. Life under the
waters would follow a different course from life in the air. And cities
under the sea would be very different, too.

Gresham had never known this feeling of bodily freedom before. He shared
with the Swimmer the physical sensation of motion in a supporting medium
through which he could move freely in any direction. It was a strange,
strong body that housed his mind temporarily, but no visual image of it
formed.

There were sensations of indescribable difference—a smooth, flowing,
muscular thrust that exploded into bursts of action as he drove
downward. And an aching, straining discomfort gradually ceased as he
sank. The race of the Swimmer was meant to live in the pressure of the
deeps, and now the pressure began to fold in comfortingly. Once more the
Swimmer’s body felt completely its own, and that deep, sensuous pleasure
made it take an intricate path downward, as a bird plays in its own
element or a dolphin gambols in the waves.

The dark began to close in. But Gresham began to be aware of a new,
strange light from below, an unearthly dawn, in a light-band no human
eyes could ever see except in this incredible manner. He could never
describe the color of the abysmal dawn, a tremendous slow brightening of
sunless day permeating the vastness of underseas.

Shadows of the deep water swam past, shapes of terror and mystery and
fantastic beauty. Once the leviathan bulk of the great whale went by,
and once a goblin picnic of tiny colored lanterns—fish with luminous
spots driving in an insanely gay flight before the shadow of a barracuda
that swept like death after them.

But the sea-bottom was dark. Perhaps only in some spots was this land of
veiled shadows to be found. The immense glow of the submarine dawn drew
itself in and focused on small areas as Gresham’s mind went downward
with the Swimmer. And then a gargantuan black wall, without top or end
or bottom, loomed before him.

Perspective swung round dizzily, and Gresham saw that it was no topless
wall, but the bottom of the sea. Crags lifted from it. Atolls and hills
jutted into the faint fringes of light, crawling with weeds, blanketed
with undersea growth. But the great plain and the valleys were in
shadow.

Anchored by glowing ropes that vanished in darkness below, swung
latticed spheres of light. There were dozens of them, like shining toy
balloons expanding in size as the Swimmer swept nearer and nearer.
Across the lattices a troubled whirling ran, shaking vortices of
darkness that made the spheres fade and brighten like lanterns, and then
pulse into dimness again.

The Swimmer’s headlong sweep, like flight through green air, carried
Gresham straight toward the nearest globe. Between the lattices an
opening like a shutter widened, gaped, closed.

And this was a city of the underseas.

                           *   *   *   *   *

For five days Gresham’s body lay all but motionless in his bunk on the
_Albacore_, while the ship drove forward over fathomless abysses where
Gresham’s mind moved among mysteries. Dr. Black spent as much time as he
could spare beside the cataleptic sleeper, watching the vague shadows of
expression that moved now and again across his face—wonder, sometimes
revulsion, sometimes strain and dread. But only the shadows of the real
emotions which Gresham’s mind knew, far away.

On the fifth day he woke.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Black saw his hands rise quickly to the bandaged eyes, and Gresham sat
up abruptly, making an inarticulate sound in his throat. His face for a
moment was wild with dismay and horror.

“It’s all right,” Black said quietly. “It’s all right, Gresham. You’ve
been asleep and dreaming, but you’re safe now. Wake up!”

“Safe!” Gresham said bitterly. “Blind again, you mean. And—” His face
convulsed once in a grimace of revolt; then he had himself under control
and his hands which had been clawing futilely at the bandage as if they
could pull away blindness from his eyes, fell quietly to the blanket.

“What was it?” Black asked. “You were dreaming? Would you like to tell
me?”

It did not come all at once. The story covered many days in fragmentary
sessions, but in the end Gresham told.

“You’ll find a diagnosis to cover it,” he said to Black. “You’ll have to
decide I’m a schizophrenic—is that the word—and I’m having
hallucinations. It doesn’t matter to me. I know what happened. There
were cities down there....”

He had never known true beauty until he moved with the Swimmer through
those incredible floating towns under the water. Our own race, chained
by fetters of gravitation to the ground, never knew such wonders. Our
bodies have been deformed, unsuccessful adaptations ever since we
learned to walk upright. But a species without enslavement to gravity,
developing in sheer beauty and sheer freedom, perfectly adapted to their
green aquaeous world, had come into existence underseas.

“They can build as they like,” Gresham said softly. “Gravity doesn’t
affect them, you see. There were houses—if you could call them
houses—made in spirals and coils and spheres. They can float free
within the globes if they like. Some of the houses move in orbits. Some
of them—oh, I can’t tell you. I lived there with them for a long while,
but I can’t describe them and I can’t tell you what the people were
like. There aren’t words.

“He had to take me down to make me understand what he wanted. The
Swimmer, I mean. But his city, like his mind, is too alien to tell
about. I can only say it was beautiful, the kind of beauty I’ve loved
all my life and tried to find for years. I’m going back down there,
Black.”

“Why?” Black had a note-pad on his knee and his pen was moving smoothly
across it as Gresham’s quiet voice went on. “Tell me about it, Gresham.”

“It was the atomic explosion,” the blind man said. “The radiations
released some sort of balance, away down there, and their machines
aren’t working as they should any more. That’s what caused those
whirlpools of darkness in the light and made the lattices around the
cities shake. And they need the lattices. They have an enemy down
there—another race, or maybe a branch of their own race.

“It’s strange to think of wars going on down there just as they have
here, and one race enslaving another, as the Swimmer’s people did. I
thought at first they were—well, call it evil. I saw how they ruled.
Evil is a foolish word. The Swimmer people are so beautiful and strong
and wild, you can’t apply our rules to their lives. I lived among them.
I saw that other race, in the dark of the sea-bottom, banished from that
wonderful, strange light a human couldn’t even see.

“At first I thought it was cruelty that kept the—the others—enslaved.
And then I happened to see one of the Others.” His voice faltered and a
shadow of revulsion crossed the bandaged face. “I saw what was left
after a minor uprising, and I saw how the Others kill, and what they
look like. After that I knew. If the decision were mine, I’d exterminate
them all. I can’t help that feeling. It’s instinct. There are things too
degenerate to live.

“It’s all been going on down there for I don’t know how many centuries,
how many milleniums. Think of it, Black! Empires rising and falling,
races ruling and races enslaved, sciences developing along lines we’ll
never understand and nobody guessing it until the Swimmer came to the
surface.

“His race is intelligent. They must have realized the new radiations and
the explosion had come from another intelligent race. They’ve seen
sunken ships and drowned men, they knew we lived here in the air. But
they’re so alien ... No communication is really possible between us.
If it weren’t for the accident that did—whatever it did—to my brain,
no human might ever have known.

“Well, I’m going back. There’s trouble down there. They need help.”
Gresham paused and laughed harshly. “Why do I keep thinking I can help
them? I can’t even share their thoughts. All I can do is find some
creature to take me down into the depths, so I can see with its eyes. I
can watch, if I can’t help. I can move through those wonderful cities
again, and see the Swimmer’s people.” His voice faltered and he gave his
mind up for an instant to the memory of that race and its beauty and
wildness and strange, alien enchantment.

“The Swimmer himself had to stay,” Gresham said. “The machines—you’d
never guess they were machines to see them—weren’t working well. All
who could had to help the machines, help to keep the dark race—the
Others—away from the cities. So the Swimmer’s mind let go of mine and I
had to come back.”

“What can you do?” Black asked. “Is there any way to get in touch
again?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Gresham turned his blinded face toward the ocean. He was silent for a
moment.

“That shark,” he said. “The big one. He’s still following us.”

Black had to rise and lean over the rail to make sure.

“Yes, I can see him now. He’s with us.”

“That’ll do,” Gresham said confidently. “An intelligent mind can control
a non-intelligent one for awhile. I’ll take the shark’s body and go
back.”

“You’re tired, Gresham,” Black said. “We can talk about this later. I’m
going to give you a sedative and I want you to rest.”

Gresham laughed. “See that gull up there? What would you say if it
circled three times and landed on the rail beside you?”

Black looked up. The gull sailed in one wide circle, two circles,
three—and swooped down toward the rail. Its yellow feet gripped and
closed and it perched there turning its head from side to side and
looking at Black with eyes that fantastically seemed to him for a moment
Gresham’s eyes, as if the blind man in the bird’s dim brain looked out
and saw him.

Gresham laughed again.

“You’ve got a notebook on your knee,” he said. “You have no idea how
queer you look through a bird’s eyes, Black. All out of focus and
strange.”

“Let it go,” Black said in a choked voice. The gull tipped forward and
spread its wings, its eyes going blank again with mindless
bird-thoughts.

“Yes,” Gresham said. “The shark will do....”

Black sat beside the bunk and watched the sleeping face of the blind
man, his own mind in a turmoil. He could not believe or accept Gresham’s
story, but in spite of himself he found images slipping through his
brain as he saw emotions flicker across the cataleptic face. He saw the
green abysses gliding by, he saw the nameless undersea dawn brightening
in the depths, felt the great shark’s body bend its banded muscles and
drive on and on toward a city of floating spheres that illuminated the
dark like lanterns lighted by no human hands.

Suddenly Gresham sat straight up among the blankets. The blood rushed
into his face and he said, “Huh!” in a choked, inarticulate voice.

“Gresham?” Black said, laying a hand on his arm. “Are you awake? What is
it?”

He was not awake. He did not turn his head or feel the hand or hear the
voice. All his faculties were focused on something very far away, deep
down in the abysses beneath the boat. He was like a man in a nightmare.
His breath came fast now, through bared teeth, and his face convulsed
into the lines of a man fighting for his life.

“The dark!” he said thickly. “The dark! Where did the lattices go?
What’s wrong? Oh, what’s happening here?” But that was the last
articulate speech he made, and the last words Black had time to hear,
for suddenly Gresham began to struggle violently with the blankets,
striving to throw them off, lashing out with clenched fists whenever
Black tried to hold him.

In the end they had to strap him to the bunk to keep him from injuring
himself and those around him. He lay there struggling furiously, resting
in panting silence and then fighting against the restraining bands
again. His face was wild with a ferocity that sent cold shivers through
Black’s mind, a less than human ferocity.

And in the writhing of his body against the straps, in the way it bowed
and lashed straight again, and the strangely fluid motions of his
struggle, Black tried not to think he saw the movement of a shark’s body
fighting in deep water against an alien foe.

“Blood!” Gresham muttered, deep in his throat. “Blood—so much
blood—can’t see, but—there’s another—kill, kill! Kill them all!”

And it seemed to Black that the little cabin was dark with the dark of
the undersea and blinded with blood that spread through the dim water,
and boiling with the terrible combat of an unknown struggle.

He knew to an instant when the shark died. He could tell by the last
spasmodic convulsion of Gresham’s body on the bed, the double lashing
motion and the sudden silence. He even thought he saw for an instant the
blankness of death itself flicker across Gresham’s face, the brush of it
touching the edges of the mind that had controlled the shark’s mind.

After that there was only silence, and the slumber of deep
exhaustion....

“It was too late,” Gresham said. His voice was a whisper, hoarse from
the shouting he had done through his nightmare. His body was bruised
from struggling against the straps, and his mind was sick and tired.

“It must have been too late from the moment the explosion went off, if
anyone had known. But they still hoped. They sent the Swimmer up and
they brought me down, hoping until the last I could do something.” He
laughed briefly, a croaking sound in his raw throat. “I might have known
it was too wonderful to last. The cities and the people—they were never
meant for human eyes to see. I was lucky to get even the one glimpse I
had. And maybe it’s just as well. The two cultures never could have met.
If there were any way for humans to reach them, we’d only have destroyed
their culture as we’ve destroyed everything else that’s beautiful. As
we’ll destroy ourselves, when the time comes.

“We did destroy them, Black. The explosion did it. And maybe this was
the best way, quick enough, after all.”

“But what was it? What happened?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

The face beneath the bandages was grim.

“I went down with the shark. I could see from a long way off that
something had gone wrong. Only a few of the cities were lighted, and one
of them flickered out as we came near. And in the underwater dawn-light
I could see black shapes, shambling.

“If it hadn’t been for the dark people, the slaves, I think they might
have won. They were getting the machines under control again, you see.
In the last city the machine might have held out, if the Others hadn’t
already been in the city.

“I made the shark swim closer, in through one of the dark cities
where I’d gone with the Swimmer. Once it was full of lights and
spiral dwellings, beautiful, lithe people gliding among the floating
orbits of their homes. Now it was dark. I couldn’t see much—thank God.
But the ... black ... figures shambling through those hollow cities,
among the floating bodies of the beautiful dead Swimmers, horrified
me.” Gresham bit his lip and was silent.

After a while he went on.

“There was still fighting going on around the last lighted place. I made
the shark swim into it. I could help, at least, that much.

“The Swimmers fought with curved blades of light that slashed through
everything they touched. They were wonderful fighters—terrible and
wonderful. I never saw such ferocity and such beauty. But the Others
were too many for them.” His voice cracked for an instant.

“The Others were foul, degenerate, dark _things_,” he said, and choked
over the words.

“Here, drink this,” Black commanded, holding a glass to Gresham’s lips.
Gresham drank, and rested for a moment.

“That was all,” he said presently, in a calmer voice. “I watched it end.
I helped as much as I could.” He grinned faintly. “It was one of the
Swimmers who killed the shark, finally. They didn’t understand, of
course. They must have thought it was just another of the scavenger fish
who were gathering because of the blood. The curved light-blade sheered
through it like steel—or fire—fire under water—and the shark died.
Well, it was time for me to go, anyhow. I’d done all I could, then. But
this isn’t the end of it.”

“What do you mean?” Black demanded. Then he said quickly, “Never mind.
You’ve got to rest now. You can think it over and tell me later.”

“I don’t need to think. Remember what I told you when I first saw the
Others? How hateful they are even on first sight? Instinct, Black, sheer
instinct tells you to kill them on sight. I—I don’t know why, but
that’s what I’m going to do next.” He clenched his fist and struck the
blanket lightly.

“Extermination!” he said in his hoarse, strained whisper.
“Extermination!”

                 *        *        *        *        *

A week later the _Albacore_ passed a group of tiny islets lying like
scattered flowers on the water. Native outriggers came out, as usual, to
offer fruit and gossip. Gresham seemed to know them. He talked briefly
in Kanaka, and there was much nodding and liquid chatter among the
natives. When the outriggers went back, Gresham went with them.

“I know what I want,” he told Black as the neurologist helped him over
the rail. “I’m all right now, physically. Or as much as I’ll ever be.
I’m a responsible man—you can stop worrying about me. I’ve even got
enough money put aside for what small needs I’ll have from now on.
Forget about me, doctor. And thanks—thanks very much.”

Doubtfully, and with a touch of strange, illogical envy, Black watched
him go.

                 *        *        *        *        *

The globes that once swung glowing on their cables in the abyss swing
dark now. Below them the night land of the sea-bottom stretches far away
into a light that shines eternally, a light no human eyes will ever see.
Inside the cities which are tombs now, the beautiful bodies of the
dwellers float hollow-boned, bare skeletons cleansed by the wandering
denizens of the sea. The dead race lies forever entombed in its dead
cities.

But a race still lives among them for awhile. A dark, alien race that
destroyed its masters and shambles now among the ruins it made. Death
lives with that race.

Out of the immense ocean dawn above the ravening sharks come down
silently, one by one, to kill and kill—and be killed. And on an island
high over them, in the daylight he cannot see, a blind man sits on his
beach with his strange sight focused in another world. A world of water
and darkness and death.

He is not blind as other men are blind. He has a thousand eyes to see
through. He had a vengeance to wreak. Some day that vengeance will be
sated, when the last dark shambler dies. After that, Gresham will be
content. He will give up his days then to looking at the world again
through the strange, small lenses of other brains, and to the memory of
beauty which he once saw so briefly, in the hour of its destruction, and
will never see again.

In comparison to the memory of that beauty, all other men are blind.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DARK DAWN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
