The Project Gutenberg eBook of Blind Time, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Blind Time

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: May 29, 2022 [eBook #68197]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLIND TIME ***





                              BLIND TIME

                          By George O. Smith

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Astounding Science-Fiction, September 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The man behind the large, polished desk nodded as Peter Wright entered.
"Wright," he said, "the Oak Tool Works will require an adjuster. You're
new in this office, but I've been given to understand that you have
experience, are willing, intelligent, and observing. The Oak Tool Works
has a special contract, and it is always taken care of by Mr. Delinge
who happens to be having a vacation in an unaccessible spot. Therefore,
you will pinch-hit for him."

"I understand."

The president of Interplanetary Industrial Insurance nodded.

"Good," he said. "You are to be at their Charles Street plant at eight
o'clock tonight. They are to have an accident then."

Peter Wright nodded. He turned to go, his head mulling over the myriad
of questions used by the average insurance adjuster. The questions
designed to uncover any possible fraud. Those designed to place the
full blame of the mishap, to ascertain whether it were covered by the
existing contract, to determine the exact and precise time of the
accident--

"What?" he yelled, turning back to the executive.

The president of I.I.I. nodded wearily.

"I heard you right?" asked Peter incredulously.

Edwin Porter nodded.

"But look, sir. An accident, by definition, is an unforeseen incident,
which by common usage has come to be accepted as misfortunate,
although the term 'accident' may correctly be applied to--"

"Wright, after you have been to the Oak Tool Works, you will become
violently anti-semantic."

"But look, sir. If this accident is forecast with certainty, why can't
it be averted?"

"Because it has happened already."

"But you said eight o'clock."

"I did," said Porter. "And I mean it."

"But ... but it is now about three-thirty in the afternoon. At eight
o'clock this evening there is to be an accident that has happened
already. The Oak Tool Works is in this same time-zone; they're running
on Central Standard Time, too. So far as I know, the Oak Tool Works is
not manufacturing time machines, are they?"

Porter grinned despite his weariness. "No, Oak, is not manufacturing
time machines."

"I am still in gross ignorance. If anybody is capable of truly
predicting the future on the basis of ten percent accuracy, he'd put
the insurance companies out of business--unless they hired him."

"The future, in some senses, can be predicted," said Porter.

"Only on a statistical basis," answered Wright. "The prediction that
tomorrow will arrive at precisely such and such an instant is a
prediction based upon the statistical experience gained by several
thousand years. So is the prediction of what will happen when sulphuric
acid and potassium nitrate are mixed. But an accident, sir, is
unpredictable by definition. Therefore he who can predict an accident
is a true prognosticator who needs no statistical experience to bolster
up his forecasting."

"Wright, this argument gets nowhere. It, incidentally, is why Delinge
always handled the Oak contract. He knew, and there was never an
argument. No, I'll tell you no more, Wright. You'll be incredulous
anyway until you've seen it in person. Eventually, you'll understand."

"I doubt it," replied Peter. "Seems to me that there are a couple of
very obvious factors. One, if an accident can be predicted, it can also
be avoided. Two, if such an accident is foreseen and nothing is done
about trying to avert it, then it is a matter of gross negligence and
the contract may be voided on those grounds."

"With but one exception to your statements, I agree," said Porter. "The
accident that will take place at eight o'clock has already happened."

"What you really mean is," said Peter Wright, more by way of question
than by statement, "is that the accident has occurred but will not
become evident until eight?"

"I'd hate to try to explain it in a few words. Let us try by analogy.
A man atop of the mountain sees an avalanche start toward a railroad
track. The avalanche takes out the track, preventing a meeting between
two emissaries on a vital question. The vital question is not settled,
and two countries go to war. In the war, one country discovers a
means of nullifying gravity, which after the war is used to start
interplanetary travel. Several years after interplanetary travel
starts, the rare metals are discovered in plenty and the cost of
shipping is such that the monetary system fails and the system enters a
trying period of depression. Now, could you, a man suffering because of
the depression, go back and turn aside the avalanche?"

"No, but I fail to see the connection."

"There isn't any, really. In that case the depression was due to
a concatenation of events. In the case at the Oak Tool Works, the
accident per se has already happened, but it will happen at eight
o'clock. You, Peter Wright, will witness the accident that will happen
and make a suitable settlement."

"Let's hire the prognosticator," suggested Wright.

"The laboratory is working full time on a means of utilizing the
principle in our business. To date they are not successful. For me,
I hope they are never successful. I'll stick to the statistical
experience, since true prognostication depends upon some sort of
pre-destination, which if true makes a mockery of all effort."

"All right," grumbled Peter Wright. "I'm going. What sort of accident
is ... will it be?"

"Go prepared for anything from simple abrasion to loss of limb. I doubt
the possibility of death, but--"

"I give up," groaned Wright.

"Where's Delinge?" asked the man at the Oak Tool Works.

"Vacationing on Mars, I believe."

"No offense, young man. I'd prefer him only because he has experience
in this. I'll have to spend some time in explaining to you, as a
newcomer, just what really goes on."

"What I'd like to know," said Wright, "is some means of averting these
predictable accidents."

"We've tried. We've also failed."

"Look, Mr. Simpkins, I'm of the legal profession. I am not too much of
a scientist, and I know about nothing regarding machinery--let alone
the kind of plant that makes tools that make tools. I took a course in
mech, of course, and forgot it as soon as I made my grade."

"Do you know what a blind rivet is?"

"Ah ... er ... one that can't be seen from both sides?"

"Right. A sealed tank, for instance, usually has a manhole in it for
the bucker. The bucker holds a bucking tool against the rivet while the
riveter rams it over. Similarly, bolting structures together requires
that a counterthrust or torque be applied to the nut or bolt on the
other side. Unless the structure is equipped with tapped holes, which
are expensive and cannot be made with driller beams."

"Driller beams?"

"An outgrowth of the war laboratory. What used to be called a Buck
Rogers. Doesn't really disintegrate the metal, of course, but
dissipates the binding energy between molecules and lets the metal
float away in a molecular gas, driven by its own heat energy. The beams
are sharply defined as to diameter and depth of penetration; you can
set 'em to a thousandth, though it takes cut and try methods to do
it. We don't really drill or cut metal any more. We beam-drill it and
beam-cut it. It's possible to set a screw-cutting beam, but tapping a
three-quarter inch hole is not for any construction company."

"I follow."

"Well, in setting blind screws and blind rivets, we have a method
whereby the bucker need not crawl around on the inside. Actually, we
don't use a bucker any more. The riveter does it all from one side."

"I've heard of blind rivets."

"This is not a self-setting rivet," said Simpkins. "This is a real
rivet-set system. Wait, I'll show you one."

Simpkins snapped on the inter-communicator. "Ben? Look, Ben, we've got
a new man from I.I.I. here who doesn't know the ropes. Can you bring up
a blindy?"

"Sure, but it will be dangerous."

"I'll have the signs posted."

"O.K.," answered Ben. "I'll be up in a minute."

"Look, have you got one that is about to reform?"

"I would get that kind anyway. No sense in tying up the corridor."

"O.K."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about a minute later, no more, when a knock came at the door.
Simpkins called for the knocker to enter. The door opened and a man in
overalls stuck his head in. There was a grin on his face and a smudge
of grease on his nose. "Can't, Joe," he said. "You didn't leave the
door open."

"I couldn't be going to forget that?"

Peter Wright swallowed. "Going to forget?" he gasped.

"Ben," said Simpkins in a very tired tone, "through the door glass,
huh? Let's show this man what we're up against."

"Right."

Simpkins snapped the communicator. "Tony? Get a new glass for my office
ready."

"How soon?"

"Within the hour."

"Right. I'll have it cut and waiting."

Peter shook his head, and then watched Ben enter with the riveting
tool. He looked at it, and Ben, with a grin, held it up in front of
Peter's nose.

There was a regular air ram with handle. That was standard. But the
second air ram hitched in opposition alongside of the standard job was
new. It projected out, its business end projecting in a caliper arc
beyond the standard ram, and returning to buck the standard ram. With
this tool, one man could both ram the rivet and buck it with the same
tool, and, since both hammer and anvil were driven, the effort was in
opposition mechanically, and no great effort would be required of the
operator.

But the thing that stopped Peter Wright cold was the ... the--

The missing link!

Several inches of the caliper were missing.

Ben nodded.

Peter reached forward gingerly and passed his fingers through the
space. He felt of the ends. They were microscopically smooth, true
planes of cleavage. The far end, that acted as anvil for the main ram
was solid and immobile despite being separated from the framework by
six inches of--nothing.

"You see," said Ben, "we need only a small port in the item we're
building. For instance--" and Ben opened the closet door a crack, slid
the far end inside, and then closed the door. He shoved forward and
rapped the door panel with the main ram. Then pulled back and--

Rapped the inside of the door panel with the hidden end.

"If we were riveting, now, we could slip in our rivet and pull the
trigger. Follow?"

"I follow, but where's the missing piece? What holds it that way?"

"The missing piece is coming," said Ben, retrieving his instrument and
sitting down.

"I ... ah--" started Joe Simpkins, and then taking Peter Wright's arm
in a viselike grip, pointed dramatically to his office door. "The
wind," he gasped.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wright shook his head. It was far too much for him. He was strictly out
of his element, and struggling madly to keep up. The door, he saw, was
swinging shut, propelled by the wind. He recalled what they had said
at the portal upon entry, something about the door should be open. With
a shout and a leap, Peter raced for the door.

It slammed, and Peter grabbed for the knob.

Then the glass erupted in his face; in shards it fell to the floor,
and a metal piece came soaring through the air, through the glass, and
circled the room. Peter's jaw was slack as he watched it flying about
with no apparent plan. It poised for a minute before his chair, where
Ben had held up the blindy riveter for his inspection. In Peter's
imagination, he saw himself sitting there, passing his ghostly fingers
through the spot where that piece of steel now hung immobile. It headed
for the closet, and Ben, watching, opened the door wide. The piece slid
in, moved this way and that, rapped forward against nothing and then
rapped backwards toward the room--against nothing, and then floated
rapidly toward the riveter itself.

With precision it approached the riveter. It came to rest easily,
slipping into place with no shock, and the cleavage lines disappeared.
The blindy was complete again.

"See?" said Simpkins.

"Yeah," gulped Peter, weakly.

Laconically, a workman entered, cleaned up the glass on the floor, and
started to replace the shattered panel.

"I see--but I don't really believe it," said Peter, flopping into his
chair.

The two men laughed uproariously.

Ben sat down and Simpkins started. "You see, the time field," he said
by way of explanation. "I haven't the vaguest notion of how it works
or why. I admit it. But what does happen is that during the workday,
the missing sections of all blindy tools are stored in the tool room.
At the end of the day, their respective tools are returned to the tool
room where they restore completely. About seven to eight o'clock, the
midsections emerge from the tool room and go through the motions made
by the entire tool, eventually following their ah ... owners ... back
to the tool room where they join. At this point, those tools required
for use on the following day are placed in the temporal treater, and
treated for whatever period of action is required."

"If it takes four hours for work, they're treated for four hours," put
in Ben.

"And once the day's work is finished, the work itself must be moved,
since where the tool fits across a barrier, now the missing piece
occupies that same space. If it does not find room, the man handling
the tool several hours before will not be able to set his tool."

"Which was why I couldn't enter with the riveter," added Ben.

"It acts quite normally," said Simpkins, though with some doubt. "You
couldn't bring the thing through a barrier if no time-difference
exists. Actually, there is a temporal offset in the thing. It may pass
through the same space as another time, but not at the same time."

"And you can't lick it," said Ben solemnly. "I purposely left the
door open. But if I had really left the door open, I'd have had no
resistance in the first place--I found no trouble in hooking it over
the closet door--because when the mislink appeared, I opened the door
for it. It does help, sometimes," grinned the shop foreman, "because we
can tell when a piece of work is not going to be moved. Then it impedes
the work."

"How do you know whether the impedance caused by not moving the work
is responsible for the work not having been moved?" asked Simpkins,
wonderingly.

"I don't mind being on either horn of a dilemma," said Ben. "But I've
yet to see the dilemma that I'd ride both horns simultaneously on."

"Um, a bad animal, the dilemma," laughed Simpkins. "Well, Wright, I
trust the demonstration was successful?"

"Successfully confusing," admitted the insurance adjuster. "I gather
that the injured party got in the way of a missing link?"

"Whoever it will be was in the way of a mislink from a box-car crane."

"Bad, huh?"

"Could be--we'll know in a while."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ben lit a cigarette and said: "The box-car crane is a gadget made
possible by the temporal treating. Prior to its use they put heavy
machinery into the box car by running to the door on a crane and then
they dropped it on a dolly and slid and levered it inside and in
place. Now they have a crane with a mislink between the pulley block
and the grab hook. They hook it on, lift it up, and slide it inside
the car, suspended on the mislink that permits the roof of the car to
intervene."

"And the victim fell afoul of one of these?"

Ben nodded.

"You're absolutely certain?"

"Of course not," he said. "A number of things might have caused the
trouble. This one is a boom-type crane. The mislinks are in the booms,
and when it was swinging back from dropping a case inside, it hit
something."

"Something? Can this be identified?"

"With a minor interference, we can feel it," said Simpkins. "With a
mislink screwdriver, we can feel the interference. If it is hard, we
know that someone has--or will drop something in the way."

"And if it is soft, and moves, you can estimate it to be animal," added
Ben.

"Can't you probe with a feeler of some sort?"

"We do--and did. There was a body on the ground after the accident."

"No identification possible?"

"None. Probing with a rod in the dark makes identification difficult.
We've tried to make some sort of study, such as wearing a magnetic
badge with a key-impression on its face--the magnetic to locate and
the key to identify, but frankly," and Simpkins frowned deeply, "it's
psychologically dangerous. The accident can not be averted. After all,
it has happened. And we tried it once, and the man who was hurt--well,
knowing he was to be hurt, he went into a mental funk far worse than
the accident."

"Why didn't you send him home or have him guarded over carefully?"

"We tried, kept him guarded closely. Aside from putting him in
an air-tight case, we did about everything. When the accident
occurred--well, he and his guards went to watch the first time that the
thing could be fooled.

"It happened, all right," said Simpkins. "First, another man caught a
mislink on his shoulder, which laid him out slightly. That, we thought,
was it! And if it was, the time-factor was all screwed up. But we
all ran forward to measure, and as we did, our man got clipped with
another. The first accident had gone unnoticed by the operator."

"How can you tell that such an accident will happen?" asked Peter.
"Seems to me that a hundred tons of crane might not notice a few pounds
of human in its way."

"We erect guard-wires that register. That is for one reason only. We
use it to summon the medicos and the hospital ambulance, and prepare
for action. That's about all we can do."

"I wonder if you could take a picture of such?" suggested Peter.

"Huh?"

"Take a picture with a camera controlled by the operator--you know,
temporal treat the camera, film, and all but the range finder and the
shutter release."

"Look, fellow, that would take a picture of the accident as it happens,
all right. It's also done. Makes excellent records. But as for
pre-accident stuff, know what happens?"

"No, of course not."

"Well," smiled Ben, "you'll see. Anyway, the camera comes roaring
out, is poised in midair, and is snapped. The timing isn't too good,
however. Well, you'll see the camera come out and snap around the place
when the accident happens. Remember this is not time travel, and you
can't go forward and take a picture and then come back."

"For what good it does, we can tell about when a piece of goods will
move by leaning a long-time mislink against it and waiting for it to
fall."

"Does electricity cross the gap?"

"Nope. Only force and motion. The television idea isn't good either,
young man."

"Um, how did you know?" asked Peter.

"We go through this regular. You're not the first that has been trying
to avert accidents."

"You understand that I represent I.I.I.?"

"Yes," said Simpkins. "As such, it is your responsibility to do as much
as possible to save your company money. That is your job."

"Right. I still say that there is some means of averting the accident,
somehow."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, Ben, we've always claimed that we'd tried everything. But they
didn't try the electric light until Edison got the idea, and the
airplane was a new science when they went to work on it. Young man,"
said Simpkins, to Peter Wright, "you are a young man with a bright mind
for legal intricacies. It usually makes little difference so long as
the mind is capable of handling the intricacies, just what the mind was
specialized in. You are a fresh mind and we've all seen fresh minds
enter and lick a problem that stuck the original men for months. You
think you can lick it?"

"I don't know. It just seems to me that there must be some way."

"Don't forget," said Ben, "that this is not much different from a
regular problem. In construction, I mean. We have accidents where a man
is hit by a flying grab hook that is not in any way temporal treated.
Common accidents. The real problem, Peter, is to stop accidents. Not to
try to avert them after they have happened."

"But this one--"

"So far as the temporal treatment goes, is--or has happened."

"Could you temporal treat the stuff so the mislinks pass through first?"

"Sure," laughed Ben. "Not practical. They have no forewarning then.
They just go where the tools will go when used. We can't tell when one
of the men will try to grind a mislink chisel. As it is, we can clear
the area where the tools have been."

"Just remember that this is fact: For a one-hour mislink, we treat the
tools for one hour. They are then ready for use for one hour. At the
end of that time, the mislinks start to follow, and follow for one
hour, at which time the temporal difference decreases on a fourth power
curve, and the mislink catches up with the tool and falls back into
place."

"Uh-huh. Well, I'm new at it, gentlemen, but it is my guess that this
accident you anticipate need not happen."

"You forget," corrected Ben. "It's happened."

"Then where's the body?" demanded Peter Wright.

"It ... ah--"

"Has it really happened?"

"It will with certainty."

"Thus proving the utter futility of all effort?"

"Ah--"

"See?" laughed Peter.

       *       *       *       *       *

They left the office and proceeded into the factory. Here, where
things should have been humming, all was at a standstill. Men sat
on the benches and smoked nervously. They looked into one another's
eyes with that "Will it be me?" stare, and they worried visibly. An
electrician who tinkered hourly with lethal voltages as his day's work
sat and chewed his fingernails. A machinist, sitting on the bedplate
of a forming press large enough to stamp out an automobile body around
the place where he sat, was biting his lips and looking out through
the opened door to the shipping platform. Men outside were working
feverishly, however.

"Why?" asked Peter.

"They want to get done. They must get done so that the engine can
remove the car where the accident will happen."

"Where is this scene?" asked Peter.

It was out on the loading platform. A mislink crane shunted large cases
from the platform, swung around in an arc, and the missing section
passed through the door and the crane ran down the length of the car,
dropping the case at the far end. The mislink crane returned, the far
end reappeared, and another case was hooked to the boom. The operation
was repeated. The cases were fitted in the box car with neatness and
dispatch. The pile of cases diminished, and the box car was sealed as
the crane went to work on the next car in line. It took time, though,
to fill each car, and the men working out here sweated visibly, partly
in fear and partly from the hurried work.

They had little time to stare into one another's faces and wonder which
of them would be taking the brunt of the accident. As time wore along,
the siren of the ambulance arriving caused some nervousness. The doctor
and his corps of nurses came slowly forward, inquired as to the scene,
and proceeded to lay out a fairly well equipped emergency operating
set-up.

"I'm beginning to feel the morbidity of this," said Peter. "The doctor,
the ambulance, the insurance agent. We're like a bunch of vultures
awaiting the faltering step of the desert wanderer."

"A bunch of undertakers waiting for the accident to happen," said Ben.
"No, I'm not calloused. I'm scared slightly green. I can't take it
unless I joke about it. It's the uncertain certainty--the wondering
just which one of us gets caught in the certain accident."

"It seems uncanny to talk about the certainty of accident," said Peter.

"The training at I.I.I. would instill a bit of the perfection of
the statistical method in you," nodded Simpkins. "By the time your
statistical bureau gets all done checking the chances of a new account,
no one would bet against it. I.I.I. also puts the kiss of death on,
too. Just try to hire men for a plant that can't be insured by your
outfit. They'll ask a thousand credits a day."

"What time is this affair going to happen?" asked Peter.

"Not too long. They're about finished. Then they inert everything as
usual and we'll all retreat to the inside wall and wonder."

"Why not all go home?"

"You can't win," said Ben solemnly. "We did all go home once."

"And the accident happened anyway?"

"Certainly. A thief broke in and it clipped him. Just don't forget that
this isn't a probability, it's certain. And the same mob-instinct that
makes people gather around an injured man will keep the entire gang
here, morbidly waiting to see who gets it in what way. There is that
element of wonder, too, you know. Every man in the place knows that
someone is going to get clipped with that crane. They're all cagey and
very careful. It will be an accident despite planning, and therefore
the unforeseen something will be out of the ordinary."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Quite a problem, Peter," said Simpkins.

"I see it is."

"A lot of this veiling is sheer psychiatry. We've consulted the best
behavior specialists in the system. Keeping the fact secret is worse
than permitting free knowledge, according to them. But identifying the
victim is far worse than to have everybody in a slight tizzy."

"Why?"

"Well, when it happens, we have a victim that realizes that part of
the chance was his, and shock is not so great than it would be if no
warning took place in light of the management knowing all about it
beforehand. On the other hand, all the men who were not hurt get as
much uplift after it happens as their downswing of anticipation. On the
third hand--pardon the numbers, Peter--if the victim were positively
identified, the rest would be no better off, but the victim would be a
mental case from then on, and shock would set in prior to the accident.
Then we'd be likely to run up the casualty rate. Follow?"

"It seems like a hard row to hoe."

"Well, usually we keep people out of danger areas. We know where
they'll be, of course. It's these darned accidents that happen twice in
time."

"Twice in time?"

"Yes. The accident happens once invisibly, and once visibly. Once in
the future controlled by the present, and then as the future unfolds,
it is an accident happening in the present, controlled by the past.
It's blind time, and there is nothing we can do about it."

"That fatalistic attitude again."

"Well--"

Ben interrupted. "They're stopping now."

They turned to watch. The final box car was loaded and the engine drew
them away. The mislink crane returned for the final time and was stowed
on the platform. A hush fell over the crew, and the windows in the back
were filled with faces, watching.

The silence was intense. Peter realized that practically every man was
holding his breath, and yet it would be at least a half hour before the
mislink began to follow the crane, and some time after that before the
mislink caught up to the scene of the accident.

He let his breath out with a sigh, and mentioned the fact to Ben and
Simpkins. The foreman nodded and agreed, saying: "We know, but there
isn't one of us who won't try to hold his breath for the next two
hours."

"Impractical," muttered Peter Wright. "There must be a way."

       *       *       *       *       *

The mislink was a husky section in its own right. The crane boom was no
weakling. Thin rods, jointed on toggles, floated about ten inches from
the main "I" beam, just as long as the temporal treated section itself.
It made an eerie sight, this monstrous slab of solid metal, moving back
and forth with determination and purpose, _with no visible means of
support_. To add to the alien sight, the telltale rods maintained their
ten-inch separation with a metallic rigidity, though no connection was
visible to the main girder.

On the loading deck were three painted circles. The inner one was a
four-inch stripe of brilliant red. The circle approximated the scene
of the accident. Outside of that by a considerable safety-factor was
an orange stripe, almost yellow. Another safety-factor distance away
the third stripe of green inclosed the area. As the mislink crossed the
green stripe, all eyes fastened on it. As it crossed the yellow-orange
stripe, the watchers tensed, and as the mislink crossed into the danger
section, there was a sudden, audible indrawing of breath, which was
held solid until the mislink passed across the red line on the way out.
The out-go of breath was definitely audible.

The tension mounted. A large clock, set up for the case, swept around
and around toward the estimated zero hour. The watchers no longer
looked into one another's eyes and when eyes met inadvertently, they
both fell with a sickly smile that lacked courage.

_Why were they there?_ Peter asked of himself, and he knew. They
were there because of morbid curiosity. The thing that made people
watch three-hundred-foot dives into a large washtub of water; people
watching a tightrope walker somersault on the wire above Niagara:
watching the high trapeze artists performing with no net. That one of
them was certain to be called into the act, the element of chance and
the element of danger, always a gamble, made them stay. With nothing
to win, they stayed to watch, which is a basic characteristic of human
nature.

They were there because they were human!

And when the accident came, the laws of the lines would be broken,
though everything in every man's power would be done to maintain the
safety. For the mislink would stop, after the accident, just as the
crane had been stopped automatically by the contact with the telltale
rods in their temporal extension of the crane itself. The green line,
across which no one must pass save the authorities; the yellow line
across which only the medical corps may cross, and the red line across
which only two men may cross and then only to take the victim to the
medical set-up on the dock. Men would rush forward, crossing the
lines, and the victim would be carried away with a trailing number of
watchers. Then, someone would have to forget the victim to keep the
rest of the men from getting in the way of the mislink as it resumed
operations. But, of course, no one else had been hit, so this, at
least, would be successful, and the men were very confident that no
matter what they did, they would not be hit.

The minutes wore on interminably. Coffee came in great tanks, and
sandwiches in stacks. The men ate in gulps, swallowing great lumps of
unchewed food, and all courted indigestion. The strain was terrific as
the timing clock drew close to the minute.

_Who--?_

       *       *       *       *       *

Then--came the zero minute.

There was an intake of breath as the clock chimed once, to mark the
beginning of the period of probability. No man moved a muscle, yet all
muscles were tense with expectancy. Nervously, Ben felt in his pocket
and took out a cigarette, stuck it into his mouth, and fumbled for a
match. "Match?" he grumbled.

Simpkins fumbled and shook his head.

"Nope," he said, and his voice was loud and raw.

Peter felt in his pocket and found a match.

He lit one and held it over. His eyes were solid on the scene, he did
not want to miss it.

"Look out!" someone cried in a strident voice.

The mislink was approaching the circles again.

Peter turned and faced the place squarely, casting an eye across the
men's faces. They were all set, and in every man's body were muscles
tensed against moving forward.

_How_, asked Peter of his mind, _can they expect anything to happen
now? Every man is psychologically unable to move forward._

There came a stabbing pain, and Peter whirled with a wordless scream.
The shock was searing. Instantaneously, he whirled, hitting his
upflinging elbow against the wall. The obstruction in motion set him
off balance, and he automatically moved a foot to regain it. His foot
hit the foot of Ben, who was standing solidly, partly turned, his face
just changing from solid-set to one of surprise.

The solid foot tripped Peter, and he fell forward. He flung the
still-burning match from his fingers as he put both hands forward
to break his fall. The loading deck came up to meet him, and his
forward-flung hands went down toward--

_The red line!_

There was a coruscating flare of stars, bars, and screaming color in
his mind, that contracted to a pinpoint and then expanded to infinity,
leaving only peaceful blackness.

He returned to consciousness in the ambulance, but his return was
brief. He was conscious only long enough to hear:

"Some day we'll lick it," said Ben.

"Only when you lick the regular accident rate. The trouble is,"
mused the medical attendant, "that people think there's something
about mislink accidents that is different. Like either predestiny or
something that makes you able to change the future. Fact of the matter
is, it is the _past_ that they're trying to change. Funny, to think of
this guy getting it."

"Last one got it by a different set of factors," said Ben, "but you
can't stop an accident that's already happened."

Peter Wright, adjuster for the solar system's greatest insurance
company, Interplanetary Industrial Insurance, went under. His mind was
whirling with a mixed desire to argue about temporal accidents, and the
certain knowledge that he was in no position to mention the avoidance
of same.


                               THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLIND TIME ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
