The Project Gutenberg eBook of Noon, by Hudson Hastings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Noon

Author: Hudson Hastings

Release Date: May 29, 2022 [eBook #68202]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan, Alex White & the online
             Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
             https://www.pgdpcanada.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NOON ***




                                 NOON

                           By Henry Kuttner

              Writing under the pseudonym Hudson Hastings

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Thrilling Wonder Stories, August 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

             _John Weston balks death—but not destiny—when
               he tries to save Serena, mindless perfect
                    woman, from the Flame Blossom!_


When he looked up from the pool, the garden was—different. In the water
Weston had seen the reflection of blue sky and sunset clouds, and the
shape of a plane going over. The deep buzzing of the engines had
suddenly died. It had been sunset; now it was noon—and he was no longer
in Versailles.

It had taken months. But the miracle was that it had happened at all.
People who search for miracles seldom find them. Yet John Weston,
perhaps because he was idle and footloose and wealthy enough to indulge
his impulses, had come searching for a phantom, and had found it. Dunne
had been right, and the theory of serial time could be right, and the
authenticated tales of temporal apparitions in the Versailles garden
were more than merely tales.

The first day he had come here he had sensed a shifting and a
strangeness, but it had passed quickly. Still, it was enough to anchor
him here, strolling through the old paths, not quite believing that he
would ever again see that face he had glimpsed momentarily through a
shimmer of spray. Time-traveling was nothing you could weigh and
balance. It either happened or it didn’t.

And now it happened.

Weston stood without moving, looking around. The trees had moved and
changed, and not far away were low blue buildings with conical roofs.
Underfoot was a thick, soft moss instead of grass. The pool was still at
his feet.

After the initial shock of incredulous amazement had passed, he began to
walk toward the cone-roofed buildings.

Then the second miracle happened. Three people came out of one of the
structures and began to walk toward him. One of them was the girl whose
face he had already seen. The others were young men, thin, wearing
tunics of shining bronze-green, like the girl’s, and a curious vitality
seemed to shimmer from them as they walked.

As Weston looked at them, he felt certain that this was another world or
a far-distant era in time. They were almost unbelievably slender, but
not awkward or angular, nor were their thin, pointed faces sharp.
Bronze-green eyes looked at him.

Weston opened his mouth. The impossibility of communication occurred to
him. But they were waiting.

“Hello,” Weston stuttered almost at random.

The three smiled at him and repeated his greeting. It might have been
merely a friendly echo. Weston, slightly stunned, tried again.

“Where am I?” he asked. “What place is this?”

“This is Jekir’s,” the girl answered.

“Oh. W-what year is this?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

But this time they looked at him, still smiling, but waiting for
something. It was very quiet; leaves rustled somewhere.

One of the men turned and walked softly away.

“He has work to do,” the girl said. “Have you finished yours for a
while? My name is—”

It sounded something like _Serena_.

Weston had not expected this placid acceptance. He began to explain and
question, but the girl interrupted him.

“I must get back to my work, too.” She turned, and Weston, hesitating,
glanced helplessly at the other man.

There was no help there.

Weston went after Serena, feeling baffled. She had gone into one of the
buildings. It was an amazing place, Weston found. There were corridors
and little irregular rooms and floors like balconies, and all the
partitions were translucent, like the walls. Lights came in green, deep
blue, and ocean-purple.

[Illustration: The glass globe Serena carried was translucent and glowed
with a strange greenish light]

When Weston caught up with the girl, he saw that she was carrying a
globe of glass. Not until they emerged in the daylight did he see that
it was apparently full of smoke, a trickle of it escaping through an
opening in the top and drifting back as Serena walked.

She put the sphere down on the moss and began her work, totally ignoring
Weston. She made fires spring up—Weston was completely puzzled by the
method—and simply sat, and looked at the flames. That seemed to be all
there was to it.

Twice Weston spoke to her, but she did not answer. He finally began to
explore the buildings. In the end, he was no wiser than when he began,
and he had not encountered either of the two men. Whatever he had
expected, it wasn’t this.

He thought: Why aren’t they surprised? Had time-traveling become common
or was there another answer?

The noon passed into afternoon and the beginnings of blue evening, while
Weston moved like a ghost through that strange, incomprehensible place
that was too alien for him to understand. Finally he saw Serena and the
men sitting on the moss before one of the buildings. He went out to
them, and saw that they were eating. He joined them.

It was the strangest meal Weston had ever had. The earth served him! A
little pool opened in the lawn at his feet, exactly like an opening
mouth. It was full of something like jelly. Weston, watching the others,
scooped up some of the stuff in his palms and tried it. It was palatable
enough.

Then, around the pool, a ring of small green plants pushed themselves
up, budded without blossoming, and put out round fruits like little
balloons which swelled as he watched. Serena plucked one and ate it.
Weston closed his mind temporarily to questions and—had dinner!

When they finished, the pool closed, and the tiny plants fell to bright
pink dust that sifted into the moss. The three aliens sat back, paying
little attention to Weston, and talked.

“The fires were burning well today,” Serena said. “It was easy to handle
the clay.”

“I had a little trouble,” one of the young men murmured.

“Will you finish soon?” Weston asked, and they looked at him with odd
eagerness.

“I shall. I think I shall,” Serena answered. “How far along are you?”

“That isn’t my job,” Weston found himself saying. “I’m from a different
time. This isn’t my world at all. I—I—”

He stopped, because they were looking at him with polite inattention.
Then they went on with their talk as though he hadn’t spoken.

It grew darker. Time in that world was different. Weston had left
Versailles at sunset and stepped into noon. Finally Serena stood up and
led the way back into a grove of tall trees. Four branches were hanging
low, and at the end of each branch was an enormous folded flower. The
flowers opened slowly.

Serena stepped into the soft trough of the nearest and stretched out.
The petals folded about her, and the branch rose. The two men also
relaxed in similar fantastic hammocks. One flower remained.

Weston hesitated, alone in the gathering darkness. He had not had a
single question answered satisfactorily since he came here. He had met
only acceptance. Even this world accepted him without an inquiry. There
were now _four_ flowers—perhaps last night there had been only three.

Serena and the men were invisible in their blossom-hammocks above
Weston’s head. He drew a long breath and turned away. He went to the
pool that was that gateway back to his own time, but something stopped
him from making any definite move toward return. This opportunity might
never come again. He had what he had wanted. He was in another
time-world—but such a world! How could he find out?

                 *        *        *        *        *

In the end, he returned to the fourth flower and lay down. The petals
folded around him. There was a sweet, cool scent in his nostrils, a warm
rocking—and that was the last thing he remembered. The next day—

The next day the two men tried to kill him.

The flowers opened at dawn, and the four bathed in a pool of glowing
water that felt like silk. And another tiny crater opened in the moss to
feed them all. Afterwards, ignoring Weston’s futile questions, Serena
went away to her work. The two men watched Weston follow her, their eyes
coldly interested.

By now Weston knew he must leave very soon. If he did not get his
questions answered quickly, they would never be answered. So he kept
interrupting Serena at her work, asking what it was she did, what this
world was like, a thousand other queries that apparently meant nothing
at all to her. Sometimes she spoke, but only once did she give Weston
any real help. Once she said:

“You must ask The Knowledge about that.” And she gave Weston directions.

Perhaps it was merely to get rid of his annoying presence.

At any rate, he followed Serena’s instructions, feeling like an ignorant
child in a place of inconceivable maturity. Yet The Knowledge sounded
very helpful. A library of talking books or pictures, or a radio-atomic
brain. Weston began to feel rising excitement as he searched in the
building Serena had indicated.

At first he couldn’t find it. The room looked ordinary, insofar as any
of those rooms of deep, cool light and color could ever seem ordinary.
But after a while one of the men brushed past Weston in the doorway and
crossed the floor to stand before the far wall.

In the wall an oval of shining light dawned. The man seemed to listen.
Then he turned and went softly out by another door. The bright oval
faded.

When Weston stepped in front of it, the panel came to life again. It was
The Knowledge, all right. And it was the equivalent of a super-library.
A machine—yes, a radio-atomic brain, a mechanical colloid that was the
culmination of the thinking machines of Weston’s own time. It could
answer questions. Serena’s race had come to need a radio-atomic brain,
because they had lost a certain human factor, over the long, long ages.

They had lost intelligence.

They had initiative. So has a plant. So has a flower. And their’s was
the force that activates unreasoning things. The Knowledge explained
that, in answer to Weston’s silent questioning.

But it was only a machine—it didn’t know all Weston wanted to learn. He
found himself looking for some human understanding to go with the more
than human wisdom it seemed to have—some friendliness!—behind that
shining panel, and of course there was nothing like that at all. A
radio-atomic brain, keyed to perform certain functions, but without
initiative, to give the humans knowledge as they needed it.

Weston got his answers at last.

After a time he stepped outside to get some fresh air. He felt stifled.
He could see Serena and the others working away at their unearthly
fires, and overhead was the burning sunlight of mankind’s long noon.

Yes, it was noon. It had been noontide for a millennium!

What Weston had expected to find in the future was problematical. But he
had not expected this—what The Knowledge had told him. He stood there,
sweating and curiously unwilling to move. Around him were tiny rustlings
in the moss. He could hear the flames roar up, and twice he heard a very
deep sighing, like a giant drawing the first breaths of life.

It was noon. That was the answer. A noon that might have lasted for a
million years. Weston tried to comprehend it. But he was used to flux.
He found it hard to realize that when you reach perfection, by the
definition of that term you can’t go up or down.

Serena’s race had achieved perfection. It had stopped at mankind’s
midday. There would never be afternoon or twilight but, Weston thought
coldly, in the end, there would be night!

It had happened before, he knew. Ants and bees were found in fossil form
a million years old, exactly like ants and bees today. And the ordinary
cockroach is a hundred million years old in its form. When it achieved
perfection, absolute adaptation to its environment—it stopped. As the
human race had stopped, too.

Noon....

                 *        *        *        *        *

Weston looked for Serena. He still couldn’t quite believe that she
was—what she was. He saw her working with the two men, and amid the
fires a giant figure stood motionless. Weston called to the girl.

Noon!

He knew now the kind of work they did, and why it absorbed them so
utterly. He knew that they were creating—life. Creating it endlessly,
hopelessly, in unstable forms that flickered out or were destroyed as
they sprang flawed from the fires. He knew a little of the myriad
experiments they had tried and found useless. And perhaps, in a way, he
guessed why they worked, and why they failed.

It was clear to him too, by analogy, what had happened to the human race
in the interval between his own time and this. He went looking for
Serena presently. He wanted to gaze on her strange, vibrant,
otherworldly brightness and try to convince himself that she was—what
she was.

For already he was finding something almost hypnotic about the girl.
Such brilliance, such dazzling perfection, such incredible sureness in
all she did, without a wasted motion or a moment of indecision. Of
course that was possible to her—as it is impossible in ordinary
humans—because she was what she was. Still, he had to look at her.

He found her working with the two men and among the fires he saw a giant
figure stand motionless, looming above them.

“Serena!” he called.

He thought: If I could tell her, make her believe what has happened,
perhaps she’ll really notice me.

She came forward, wiping the flames from her hands like water. There was
a look even brighter than usual on her glowing face.

“We will succeed this time,” she said, and Weston went cold. “Now that
you’ve come, a new factor is made available for us. You! We need you.
The Knowledge has just told us that if we use your mind-factor, we have
a better chance to succeed.”

He looked into her eyes and read the emptiness there. Her hand was
suddenly on his arm, tightening. And she was strong—terribly strong.
The two men had left their fires and the giant figure, and were moving
toward Weston.

He tore free and went running across the moss, running as hard as he
could toward the time-door by the pool, under the bright, timeless
noonday sky.

Then out of the moss a subtle rustling stirred again, and suddenly
Weston felt his feet caught and held. He pitched forward and slid along
the ground.

When he sat up, he was looking around at a ring of incredible tiny
beings—not human or insect or animal. Brightly tinted little beings
that shimmered around their edges with an unreal glimmer. As he looked,
two of them seemed to dissolve and vanish upon the air. The others, low
down in the moss, stood watching with hard, jewel-bright eyes.

Experiments. The failures ... He closed his mind to the thought.
Serena and the two men stood above him, looking down with polite,
waiting eagerness—waiting, he thought, to feed him into the flames and
remould his flesh into—

Serena smiled and held out her hand.

If he could make her understand! Deep panic chilled him. He must play
for time!

It could be done. They were not really intelligent. He knew that now.

He stood up. “Wait,” he said. “I’ll go with you, but let’s make quite
sure first. There’ve been mistakes enough already. Come back with me to
The Knowledge, and listen to what it says when I question it.”

They came quite willingly. The flock of tiny bright things rolled after
them, unreal, shimmering. Weston thought of Eden.

The oval window opened in the wall. Weston asked a question, and in his
mind and in the minds of the others an unexpected answer took shape.

“Yes,” said The Knowledge, “You have a factor of the mind that could
mean success. A factor I have sensed in the Golden Light itself, which
is the essence of perfection. But the woman here has more. It is
recessive in her brain, but far stronger than the dominant factor in
yours.”

Weston spoke to gain time.

“The Golden Light? What is that?”

“I am not capable of answering. That is unknown.”

Serena had not listened.

“Will we succeed if I use myself as material in the work?” she said
tranquilly.

“Serena, you can’t do that,” Weston said.

                 *        *        *        *        *

She didn’t hear. She turned and went out, the men after her. One of the
men looked back briefly at Weston, and the cool deadliness was gone from
his eyes. For Weston didn’t matter any more. Not to them.

He could tell that the personal danger to him had passed. And now that
he could have made his way to the time-door without hindrance, he did
not. He had to see what was happening to Serena. So he followed the
three.

This time he had a better look at the figure being moulded in the
flames. It was a man, a giant, more than eight feet high, beautiful as a
god and quivering with half-sentient life. But its eyes were blank.

The three humans were busy around a new fire they had kindled. Weston
stood watching. They completed their preparations. Serena steadied
herself on one of the men’s arms and prepared to step into the fire.
Weston found himself lunging forward—in time.

He got her by the shoulders and pulled her back. The men glanced at him
calmly, incuriously. The fires seethed up.

“Serena, you can’t!” Weston said. “I won’t let you!”

She didn’t answer. His words meant nothing. He could feel the continuous
steady pressure of her body as she leaned toward the fire, ready to
enter it the moment he let her go.

One of the men seized his wrist and tried to free her. Weston was glad
for an excuse for explosion; he was on surer ground there. He swung
around and struck once at the man, very hard, hitting him on the corner
of the jaw. The man was lightly built. He went down in a heap and lay
there looking at Weston without surprise or anger, but with a clear
intent in his eyes.

Weston swung Serena off her feet and started away at a heavy run,
carrying her. When he reached the corner of the buildings he paused to
look back. The men had returned to the other fire where the giant figure
stood, and they were working on that, deftly and fast, wasting no
motions. Twice they pointed after Weston.

He put Serena down, keeping hold of her wrist. She didn’t resist, though
once when his grip slipped she turned instantly and began walking back
toward the fires. Weston caught her again and hurried her away toward
the time-door that led to Versailles and the Twentieth Century.

He couldn’t find it. And, quite soon, around one of the domed buildings
the giant came walking, unsteadily, tentatively, his eyes fixed on
Serena. He was tremendous. He was unsteady, because he had just been
created, Weston knew, but he came on relentlessly.

The enormous hands gripped Serena gently, pulled her free and started to
carry her back to the waiting men.

Weston jumped on the giant’s back and got a judo hold. Serena fell free,
but Weston found he couldn’t hurt his opponent. The giant didn’t try to
fight; he merely strove to escape, and he was tremendously strong. It
was even possible to feel, under that satiny, pallid skin, that the
muscles weren’t normal human tissue; they were tougher, like
heart-muscle. The only reason Weston could cope with him at all was that
the monster was so new. He hadn’t learned to coordinate yet. He had only
that single drive, Weston thought—to get Serena. Nothing in the world
could turn him from that.

And Serena was walking back toward the fires. It was a nightmare. Weston
let go of the giant and ran after her, lifting her in his arms. She lay
there lax. There was no use trying to find the time-door now; he simply
ran. And the giant came slowly after them.

Weston knew that he had to increase his lead fast, so that he could
circle back and hunt for the time-door before the giant learned to
coordinate. It was burning noon. Time seemed to be playing queer tricks.
He let Serena down after a while, but he kept tight hold of her wrist.
She had a sort of homing instinct, though the fires were out of sight by
now.

After a few hours Weston lost his bearings completely. The world of that
time was a park. Nothing changed. The whole world, indeed, seemed to be
a highly developed machine for the support of the human race....

When he was hungry, the moss fed Weston. When he was thirsty, pools
opened. And in all that desperate flight, with the giant looming
sometimes on the horizon and sometimes out of sight beyond it, there was
nothing except the undulating mossy hills, and one other thing.

The Golden Light. Weston hadn’t understood when he saw it. That happened
later, when he was exhausted. Serena was untiring. He tried to talk to
her. She answered when he touched the right chord and she had a response
to give, but it didn’t mean anything. But Weston couldn’t put away the
thought that if he could only make her understand, force her to
comprehend the fantastic motivations behind her life, she might awaken.

                 *        *        *        *        *

The giant was gaining. He wasn’t half a mile behind them now. The sun
was dropping. It would be dark soon.

There’s no twilight here, Weston thought. Only burning daylight, and
then the darkness. As it will be for man!

He talked to her.

“Serena. Listen to me. The Knowledge told me—listen! I know you’re
not—not intelligent; you have a different instinct. But if I could make
you realize that—”

They plodded on. He kept glancing at her placid, lovely face.

“Call it tropism, Serena. Tropism that makes plants turn toward light.
Or taxis, that guides insects. Insects have a perfect life, in a way.
Instinct tells them exactly what to do and they can no more resist doing
it than they can help being alive. A stimulus registers, on them, and
they act as their taxis commands. Listen!

“That’s what’s happened to the human race—your race! You haven’t any
powers of reason. You can respond only to certain stimuli, like
automata. Like The Knowledge itself. If I ask you questions you’re
geared to answer, you’ll answer. Ask you anything else, and you won’t
even hear. Do you hear me now?”

It was growing dark. There was no moon. But far away was a golden
glimmer of light on the horizon. Weston turned toward it. He didn’t
know, in the darkness, how close the giant was. But he could still make
speed, for there were no obstacles and the moss was resilient and level.
The golden shining brightened as they neared it. But Weston was
exhausted. His mind went around in circles. After a time he began to
talk to Serena again.

“You’re not human. You lost that a million years ago. Absolute
perfection—yes, your race achieved that, at the cost of humanity. Now
you don’t need machines. A long while ago you learned to harness natural
dynamics, the force of growing things. And eventually the technique of
mastering that power was born in you. You have it, don’t you, Serena?
I’ve seen you use it.

“So you didn’t need reason. You got yourself a paradise and tailored
your very minds to fit. So the answer was
stagnation—mindlessness—tropism. Serena, don’t you see the race wasn’t
ready yet for perfection? It still had a job to do. I don’t know what.
But it must have had. Idleness in paradise must have seemed horrible to
your race, or they wouldn’t have had to sacrifice intelligence to endure
it.”

He glanced again at her calm, half-visible profile. No response stirred
there.

“You’ve got to understand. Somebody understood once, a long time ago.
The Knowledge told me that. A great scientist. I suppose psychological
biogenetics would have been his field. He saw that the race was
accepting paradise before it had earned it, and so—well, he knew the
race was doomed, but he hoped that the search might go on.

“He set them a job to do. He gave them the job of creating life. That’s
your tropism—that’s your taxis. Your own race is lost and damned,
Serena, but you’re trying, by instinct now, to create a new race, a race
that will carry on where your forefathers lost the way. With natural
dynamics, and those life-fires you kindle, trying for a thousand years
to create a greater race than your own—driven by the impulse born in
you, Serena.

“Ants or bees. Alien. I can’t understand you or your race or your world.
I have only—intelligence!

“But that’s the answer, Serena. I can’t let you commit suicide. You’d go
back to the fires and walk right into them, like a moth. The tropism
would make you do that. Serena, Serena!”

He had been walking in a dream. And suddenly he saw that the Light rose
directly before them.

It was a tall flower of cool pale flame, swaying a little. The shower of
gold that came to Danae—it was like that. There were ruins embedded in
the moss, as though once a temple had risen around the Light. Perhaps it
had once been worshipped. It was tall as a man, and it glimmered, and
seemed to wait.

Weston was ineffably tired. But he knew that a last struggle still lay
before him. Or, rather, behind him, for heavy footsteps came out of the
dark, and the resilient ground quivered a little, and out of the
blackness strode the newest life-form the last men had created.

Weston pushed Serena behind him. He stood there, waiting, watching the
reflections of the Light glimmer on the magnificent pallid body of the
giant as he marched forward.

And—marched past!

                 *        *        *        *        *

Ignoring Weston and Serena, the giant moved forward toward the light!

Weston stood gaping. The monster never glanced aside. He was trying to
touch the light with big, uncertain hands that seemed to strike an
invisible barrier between him and the flame. He kept on trying
futilely—ignoring Weston.

Serena slipped free and went calmly away in the dark, following her
homing instinct toward the faraway fires. Weston was dizzy with fatigue.
He went after her, watching the giant across his shoulder. The Titan was
staring at the light, hypnotized, trying in vain to touch it with his
hands.

He did not follow.

Weston never remembered much about the trip back. He must have slept on
his feet, stumbling toward the moss, holding Serena’s wrist as she led
the way toward the fires that waited for her. They went slowly; her
patience was fathomless and somehow terrible.

Late in the morning they reached the blue buildings again. The men
looked up from their work briefly, and then bent again over the figure
they were moulding. “Almost ready now,” Serena murmured. “No time was
lost, after all. Soon—soon, perhaps!”

Then nightmare. Weston had to exert constant effort simply to keep his
fingers locked around her wrist. He was looking for the time-gate. But
his eyes kept closing and sleep washed up exactly like a tide rising, so
that twice he snapped awake in time to see Serena walking toward the
fires. He caught her scarcely in time.

Perhaps the gateway had moved with the time-flow. Perhaps he had simply
forgotten its exact location. He searched and searched, in a dull,
grinding interval of aching exhaustion, all through that terrible
noontide of a race that would soon move on into its night, searching for
its own destruction.

A dreamy sort of horror grew slowly upon him. The men seemed to be
working so fast. Their blind tropism, their ancient, inbred instinct
drove them. Weston stumbled on around the little pool, dragging Serena—

Then he was in the Versailles garden, by the pool, again, and a plane
was droning overhead, and he still gripped Serena’s wrist. He had
brought her back through time, from noon to morning.

And that was his damnation—and hers.

                 *        *        *        *        *

South of Suva a coral island stands in the empty seas. Once there were
natives there, Kanaka boys, but not now. There is a walled garden, and a
deserted house; already pandanus grows wild, and the lichen and the
swift tropical vines are beginning to devour them both. And there is
something else, eternal and alien, that stands on the island untouched
by the hurricanes that roar yearly along the trades and loose their fury
on the islet.

The skippers of a few trading ships know that John Weston once lived
there. They used to bring supplies, food and equipment and the luxuries
a wealthy man need not be deprived of, even though he lives in the
middle of the South Pacific. But no ships anchor there any more. As for
the Kanaka boys, no one pays attention to their drunken stories. And
they will not go back. They are afraid.

Weston lived on the island for nearly thirty years.

He was in love with Serena, you see. She was the ultimate perfection of
the human race. As man strives for perfection, so in his own way he
wanted Serena—to keep her with him always—to bask in that shining,
vital glow she radiated.

He couldn’t understand her. But he couldn’t stay away from her. She had
never known grief or indecision or despair. So, after Versailles, after
he had found that nothing else was possible, he took her to the Pacific
island. He built her a walled garden there. She knew how to make the
moss and the trees grow; the power to control natural dynamics was
inbred in her race. She kindled her life-fires—and she began to work
again.

The man lived on the island, too—watching Serena, worshipping her.
Watching her create life and destroy it. Year after year he watched her
follow that single taxis. She answered when Weston asked the right
questions, but there was never any real contact. The gulf between them
was too vast. She was perfection—and all he had was intelligence.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Sometimes he thought of taking her back to her own world. But he knew he
could never do that. The two men would be waiting, and the fires would
be waiting, and Serena would be ready to sacrifice herself to create the
new race that would supersede mankind....

Nearly thirty years. She did not seem to age. But Weston did. And then,
one day, the end came at last.

He unlocked the door of the garden and went in, calling Serena’s name.
She had always answered before. But this time only silence greeted him.

He went down the winding path, and at its end he saw the flame, burning
like an unearthly flower, tall, pale gold, swaying in the uprush of its
own fire. It lived and burned and waited. He knew, then, instantly.
Serena was still in the garden. But she was beyond answering.

It was success. It was what Serena and her race had been trying, for so
long, to achieve. The new race. She, herself, had possessed whatever
quality it was that had been required—she had, at last, found the right
formula for the new life. She was the life. Or part of it.

Weston stood there, watching. He remembered what he had seen so far away
in the future, burning in that wilderness of mossy hills. This, then,
was why the giant had forgotten Serena and turned to the Golden Light.
The Golden Light was Serena. It was the new race. She had used herself
to create the next step beyond mankind. She had brought it into being a
million years before she, herself, had been born!

And all through those eons, her people were spending their energies
striving to accomplish what Serena had already achieved far in their
past!

There had been a barrier guarding the light—in the future. But now? Had
it developed yet?

In green twilight the flame burned on. It was new. This was the first
night it would illumine—but the mind could not grasp the concept of the
countless nights to come through which it would burn. Millions upon
millions upon millions of nights and days, while the seas shrank and the
tides of time rolled relentlessly over the planet. While mankind found
paradise and sank into the long, terribly perfect noontide of the human
race.

And after that somehow, sometime, it must waken, for it was the first of
its superhuman, alien race. After man it would come. And part of it was
Serena.

“Serena!” Weston breathed.

And then he was moving forward, his face bright, his eyes eager, into
the alien heart of that living fire.

The garden was empty, except for the tremendous flame. Its shining
enigma glowed through the night. No man would ever know the secret of
its power or the nature of the alien life that burned in its heart,
dormant, sleeping—not yet ready to waken and inherit the earth, to
waken from man’s eternal, doomed noon into the bright morning of its
unimaginable future.

The garden lay silent. No human foot moved through it. Only the golden
fire burned like a flower against the darkness.

Now there would be a million years to wait.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NOON ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
