The Project Gutenberg eBook of The fixer, by Wesley Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The fixer

Author: Wesley Long

Illustrator: Kramer

Release Date: June 2, 2022 [eBook #68223]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FIXER ***





                               The Fixer

                            By WESLEY LONG

                         Illustrated by Kramer

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Astounding Science-Fiction, May 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Sandra Drake sat in her perfect apartment on Telfu, and cursed in an
unladylike manner. She was plying a needle with some difficulty, and
the results of her work were decidedly amateurish. But her clothing
was slowly going to pieces, and there was not a good tailor in nine
light-years of Sandra Drake.

The Telfan tailors didn't understand Solarian tailoring; Sandra was
forced to admit that they were good--for Telfans. But for Solarians,
they didn't come up to the accepted standards.

They had tried, she gave them credit for that. But the Telfan figure
did not match the Solarian, especially the four-breasted female Telfan
woman did not match Sandra's thin-waisted, high breasted figure. Her
total lack of the Telfan skin; part feathers, part hair, but actually
classifiable as neither, caused a different "hang" to the clothing.
Telfans wore practically nothing because of the pelt and though
Sandra's figure was one of those that should have been adorned in
practically nothing, Telfu was not sufficiently warm to go running
around in a sunsuit.

And making over Telfan clothing to fit her was out of the question. She
stood half a head above their tallest women, and the only clothing that
would have fit was clothing made in outsizes for extremely huge Telfan
women. Needless to say this size of garment was shapeless.

Sandra finished her mending, tried on the garment and made a wry face.
"I used to curse the lack of humans here," she told her image in the
mirror, "but now I'm glad I'm the only one. I'd sure hate to have any
of my old friends see me looking like this."

The image that repeated silently was not too far a cry from the Sandra
Drake that had called the _Haywire Queen_ in for a landing on Telfu
some months ago. But they hadn't waited, and she now knew why. Well,
she was forced to admit that her try at either trapping them here or
getting off with them had failed, and therefore she had been outguessed.

That made her burn. Being outguessed by a man was something that Sandra
didn't care to have happen. She could live through it; but it was the
aftermath that really hurt. The Telfans came to understand her too well
after that incident. They no longer looked upon her as a leading figure
in her system. They knew that her knowledge of Solarian science was
sketchy and incomplete. Therefore she had lost her hold upon Telfu,
and was now forced to do her own mending.

On the other hand, Sandra Drake was an intelligent woman. Her contempt
for the Telfan language was gone. It went on that memorable day when
she discovered that everyone who understood any Terran had gone to
greet the landing _Haywire Queen_ and had left her unable to convey her
desires. From that time on, Sandra plied herself and was quite capable
of conversing in Telfan, and fluently.

So Sandra Drake had been living with the Telfans for several months.
She had been forced to live with her wits and her mind and she found
it interesting. Telfans were quite cold to her charms, which made her
angry at times; on Terra she was used to admiration from anything
masculine from fourteen to ninety-eight. Below fourteen they didn't
know any better and over ninety-eight they didn't care, but the years
between were aware of Sandra Drake. On Telfu, posturing, posing, and
offering had no effect. They looked upon her as an encyclopedia; an
animate phonograph, which, upon proper stimulation, could be made to
sound interesting.

They had their machinery of action, too. Either Sandra assisted
them--or she did not find things easy. It was adjustable, too, and the
better assistance she gave, the better she found things.

Well, thought Sandra, it has been interesting--

She was startled by a knock upon her door. She admitted two Telfan men
and a Telfan woman. The woman she knew.

"Yes, Thuni?" she asked the woman.

"Sandrake," announced the woman, putting the Telfan pronunciation on
the Terran name, "These are Orfall and Theodi, both of whom are among
the leading medico-physicists of Telfu. They desire your help."

Sandra reflected quickly. After all, this ability to be of assistance
did give her a sop to her vanity. The fact that as little as she really
knew of Terran science she could assist, and at times direct, gave her
first feeling of real self-assurance.

"I shall, if I can," she told them.

"You, in spite of your untrained mind, have been extremely valuable,"
Orfall said simply. "While you do not know the details, you at least
have some knowledge of the channels of Terran science, and you may, and
have, explained down which channel lies truth, and along which line of
endeavor lies but a blank wall. That in itself is valuable."

"Another item of interest," said Theodi, "is the fact that the books
left us by the _Haywire Queen_ are ponderous and often obscure; they
assume that we have a basic knowledge which we have not. You have been
able to direct us to the proper place in them to find the proper answer
to many of our questions."

"I see," said Sandra. All too seldom had anyone told her she was
valuable and interesting. It had been more likely a statement of her
headstrong nature, her utter uselessness, and her nuisance value.

"As you know, we of Telfu are slightly ahead of you in chemistry.
Yet there are things in chemistry that can not be solved without an
advanced knowledge in the gravitic spectrum that Terra has exploited.
Perhaps it was the lack of a channel in the gravitic that drove us into
higher chemical development; but we are planet-locked until your people
return to remove the block."

"Go on," said Sandra impatiently. "I gather that you are in trouble of
some sort?"

"We are, indeed. A plague of ... ah, there is no word for it in
Terran"--he switched to Telfan, "Andryorelitis," and back again
to Terran--"which is an air-borne disease of the virus type. No
inoculation has been discovered, and no immunity zone can be
established. Telfu is in danger of halving the population."

"Bad, huh?"

"It is terrible. It strikes unknown. Its incubation period is several
days, and then the victim gets the first symptoms. Nine days later, the
victim is dead. Unfortunately, the victim is a carrier of andryorelitis
during the incubation period, and therefore isolation is impossible."

"Sounds like real trouble to me," said Sandra. "Will examination reveal
it?"

"Of course," answered Orfall. "But what planet can examine the
population daily?"

"I see the impossibilities. Then what do you hope? We have nothing
that will combat it; knowing nothing of it in Sol would preclude any
possibility. What can we do?"

"To return to chemistry," said Theodi, "I will explain. Our
chemico-physicists have predicted the combination of a molecule which
will combat the virus selectively. It is a complex protein molecule of
unstable nature--so unstable, unfortunately, that it will not permit us
to compound it. We have used every catalyst in the book, and nothing
works. Follow?"

"I think so," said Sandra. "What keeps it from forming?"

"As I said, it is very unstable. The atomic lattice appears to be
structurally unsound. That happens in a lot of cases, you know. At any
rate, we can make this molecule--and have made it successfully. But its
yield is less than four ten-thousandths of one percent, and the residue
precipitates out in an insoluble compound that can not be reprocessed."

"Otherwise you would keep the process going until completion?"

"Precisely. If reprocessing would work, we could leave the batch to
cook until all of it went into combination. Or we could add fresh 'mix'
to the processing batch and make the process continuous. But the stuff
is not re-processable. We must complete each batch, and then go on a
long process of fractionation to distill the proper compound out of
the useless residue."

"I can see that a process of that inefficiency would be bothersome,"
said Sandra.

"Not bothersome, Sandrake. Impossible. Imagine going into a project
giving about .000,37% yield for two hundred-fifty billion Telfans.
The required dose of the antibody is forty-seven milligrams. Call it
fifty, for round numbers, Sandrake, and you get a total figure of
one trillion, two hundred-fifty billion milligrams, or one million
two hundred fifty thousand kilograms. At four ten-thousandths of one
percent yield, we'd have to process something like three hundred
billion kilograms of raw material and then rectify it through that
long and laborious process of fractional crystallization, partial
electrolysis, and fractional distillation--with a final partial
crystallization. Processing that much raw material would be a lifetime
job at best. Doing it under pressure, with the planning and procurement
problems intensified by the certainty of the few short weeks we
have ... ah, Sandrake, it is impossible."

"What is this trouble specifically?"

"The final addition of silicon. It will not enter the compound, but
forces something less active from the combination."

"Making it useless?"

"Right."

"You've tried it?"

"And it works," nodded Orfall.

"And knowing that you of Terra have some wonders in science, we would
like to know--"

"You see," interrupted Orfall, "they've figured that the catalyst would
be less than sixty-one percent efficient, if we could combine the
silicon with it and let it replace into the other compound. That would
work. But again we are stuck. The catalyst is stable as it is. What has
Terra done to assist in forcing combination in unstable compounds?"

"Must be something," said Sandra, thoughtfully. "May I have a moment to
think?"

"Certainly."

"And one thing more. Haven't you anything that even resembles tobacco
on this sterile planet?"

"I'm afraid not," said Theodi. "Believe me, we have sought it."

"Thanks," said Sandra. "I know it was for me. But, fellows, I think
better with a cigarette."

"We have analyzed the one you gave us, and haven't found a similar
weed--"

"O.K., I'll do my thinking in a higher plane," smiled Sandra.

       *       *       *       *       *

A thought, fleeting as the touch of a moth's wing, crossed Sandra's
mind. She fought to reclaim it. It had some association with an
experience--some experience in which she had failed, somewhere.

Recently? It might have been.

Long ago?

Sandra didn't think so.

She sat there silent, and the Telfans left with a short statement to
the effect that she might be able to think better alone. They would
return later.

It had to do with something highly scientific; something of a nature
that staggered her imagination. It was coupled with something vast,
something deep, something complex.

Her eyes fastened on a spot of brilliant light, reflected from a
polished and silvered glass vase at her bedside, and as she sat there
with her eyes unseeing, deep in concentrated thought, her mind focused
upon the one thing of vastness that she had been involved in.

Sandra's mind was good, in spite of her inferiority complex. It was
sharp, retentive, and above all, imaginative. It is a point for
speculation whether the imaginative qualities might not have been
responsible for her antics; certainly her escapades were the result
of some imaginative desire to excel. At any rate, she fastened her
eyes on the spot of light, and concentrated herself into a partial
self-hypnosis. The train of thought went on before her unseeing eyes
with the vividness of a color moving picture, and she was not living
the scene, but seeing herself live through a train of events that
seemed to jump the unimportant parts like a well-planned motion picture.

Her semihypnotized mind seemed to know the right track, though Sandra's
wide-awake mind either ignored the key to the problem or was not
certain of the right path to follow.

She was in a room of steel. Steel and machinery and gleaming silver
bars. There was some chaos there, too. The silver busbars had lost
their die-straightness, and in one place, a single lamination of the
main bus hung down askew. It was about a foot wide and one inch thick,
and the nine-foot section that hung from the ceiling was slightly lower
than the top of her head.

There was blood on the sharp corner, and Sandra looked down to see the
red splotch on the floor. She shuddered.

Cables ran in wriggly tangles across the floor. Some were still smoking
from some overload, and others, still new from their reels, were
obviously part of a jury-rigged circuit. Boxes of equipment were broken
open and their contents missing, though the spare parts in the boxes
were intact. The whole scene spelled--

Trouble!

The floor was not level; a slight tilt made standing difficult, until a
man from some other room shouted:

"The mechanograv is working--hold on!"

And the floor rotated until it was the usual, level platform. The huge
busbar swung gently on its loose mooring like a ponderous, irresistible
mass.

And there was a man who came striding in. His contempt for her still
hurt, and Sandra winced. Even in that motion-picture dreaming, wherein
the girl in the picture seemed apart from Sandra Drake, the ire vented
upon the red-headed image made Sandra writhe in sympathy.

And then she heard the words come from the man's lips. They were clear
and concise, and seemed to come from the man himself instead of from
within her own memory:

"The electronic charge is great enough to force an inert
element--xenon--to accept an additional electron in its ring-system.
This permits combination with active elements such as bromine. When
xenon-bromide forms, we know that our intrinsic charge is highly
electro-negative. See?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The scene within Sandra's mind dissolved, and she shook her head. It
cleared, but the words remained.

"Orfall," she called. "Theodi! Thuni--bring them here!"

They returned. "McBride," she said. "He can do it!"

"How?" asked Theodi skeptically.

"You've read their books," said Sandra Drake. "You know the principle
of the Plutonian Lens--and also that the alternating stations require
terrible electronic charges to maintain the lens that focuses Sol
on Pluto. They check that with the formation of xenon-bromide for
negative, and decomposition of tetrachloro dibromo-methane for the
positive charge. They can do it."

"Can't they do it on a planet?" asked Orfall sadly.

"Not unless they can raise the whole planet to a high negative charge,"
snapped Sandra. "What do you think?"

"I don't know--none of us do. Can they?"

"No."

"Then--?"

"We'll call them, tell McBride what's the matter and what we need.
He'll fix it."

"It sounds like a fool's gesture to me," said Theodi.

"Utterly impossible. How are we going to get in touch with them in the
first place?"

"Look," said Theodi. "We can call them. See what McBride says and put
the problem to them. If there's a way out, fine. If not, we've lost
nothing."

"But how are we going to call them over nine light-years of space?"

"Ah--yes," said Theodi. "We can't."

"Maybe I can," said Sandra. "That'll be my contribution. I think I can
call them."

"Nine light-years--" objected Theodi.

"Remember that the gravitic spectrum propagates at the speed of light
raised to the 2.71828 ... th power. That'll make talking to Terra like
calling across the room. May I try?"

"You think they'll be listening for you?"

"Can't miss," said Sandra with a positive gesture. "My ship, the
_Lady Luck_, is equipped with the standard communications set. It
puts out right in the middle of the main communications band of the
electrogravitic. If I can get enough power to beam towards Sol, it'll
hit them right in the middle."

"You intend to use the set in the _Lady Luck_?"

"Overloaded to the utmost. They tell me that they'll take one hundred
percent overloads for an hour. Make that one thousand percent, and
it may last ten minutes. Ten minutes is all I need to give them our
trouble--they have recorders if McBride isn't there to hear it in
person."

"Where are you going to get that power?" asked Theodi.

"From you."

"Impossible, Sandrake. You know that there is not sufficient power
available to make such a program possible."

"Ridiculous. The resources of a planet are unmeasurable."

"Perhaps so," said Theodi. "But remember that our power, like Terra's
power, is spread out all over the face. The transmission of power such
as you will require would be impossible because the line losses will
be greater than the power input. It might be possible to connect the
networks together and draw the entire power output of Telfu into one
district, but line losses would prohibit its operation."

"I only need ten minutes maximum," said Sandra.

"You're asking us to sacrifice--? You mean--overload every plant within
efficiency-distance of your ship until it breaks down?"

"What have you to lose?"

"Can we do it?" asked Orfall.

"Of course," said Sandra. "You run your machinery at low load until it
is running at ten times the velocity, and then I cram on the power.
Momentum will carry me through."

"And if one machine goes, under that load, the entire district will go
completely dead."

"Oh no," said Sandra. "The closer and most powerful one will not be
used. That one will be used to talk to the boys when they arrive.
They'll only have a distress signal, and the details must be held until
they come investigating. They can't land, and so we'll have to tell 'em
the story while they're in space. We'll need that power."

"Small consolation. Then Indilee will be an oasis of power in a radius
of powerless country."

Sandra looked Theodi in the eye and said in a cold voice:

"Then go on out and die with the rest of your kind. What good will
your machinery do you if you're all dead?"

"This is a democracy, Sandrake. We cannot just take the machinery and
the equipment of others--even to save ourselves."

"How's your red tape factory?" she asked with a smile.

"Meaning?"

"Either you get those power plants or die. I don't care if you steal
them, buy them, or borrow them. But get them--and quick."

"But there is a chance to save Telfu," suggested Orfall.

"Sensible fellow," smiled Sandra. In her mind she cursed the whole
planet. This was a place for Sandra to undulate a bit; to turn on those
two-million kilovolt-ampere eyes; to stretch one rounded arm out
straight, putting the other hand below the ear and raising the elbow to
a level just above those eyes and shielding the victim from the warmth
in them. This showed off Sandra's svelte figure to perfection, and
few men in Sol could have refused Sandra anything after that perfect
performance.

But they were very few.

The Telfan ideal of beauty did not include Sandra Drake's perfection.
She could have postured from now until galaxy's end, and they wouldn't
have known her intent. Against their women, Sandra was alien--not
sickeningly ugly or deformed, but alien and acceptable--and totally
undesirable.

Sandra sighed, told the subconscious mind not to bother with the
spotlights and provocative sultriness, and tried to think her way to
the mastery of these Telfans.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Couldn't we divert the electrical supply plants across Telfu?"
objected Theodi. "Seems to me--"

"Not a chance," said Sandra. "You have no idea of the power required.
I must shoot the works all at once. The set, the generators, and the
supply lines will all go out at once. That'll give me ten minutes, I
hope."

"But the dissipation of such power--Where can we collect it?"

"There's only one place on Telfu. That's in the power room of the _Lady
Luck_. That is still intact?"

"Yes. Handled, inspected, photographed, and manipulated without
driving power, of course, but it is still intact."

"Should be," commented Sandra wryly. "After all, my trouble was not
being able to make the drive work. Couldn't get any push. Used up my
entire stock of cupralum. So, do we?"

"I hate to say 'yes,'" said Theodi.

"Look," said Sandra, realizing something for the first time. "We have
lots of gravitic machinery. Give me your useless power plants and I'll
see that you get gravitic machinery to replace them."

"Um-m-m."

"Look, Theodi, you're used to thinking in Telfan terms--which means
no gravitics. Think in Terran terms. You are no longer alone in the
universe. You are in contact with a race that has gravitic power."

"Well--"

Sandra smiled. "Take it or leave it--and die," she told him. "Think of
it. Andryorelitis comes like a thief in the night, giving no warning.
Like the black wings of a gigantic, clutching bat, silent and ominous
and unseen it comes and spreads its horde of hell on the city. Men go
on in their way, meeting other men and inoculating them, passing the
germ of death to whomever the black visitor may have missed on his
visit. Men take it to their families and spread it from hand to hand,
from lip to lip, from mother to babe to grandparent and beyond. The
unborn is as cursed as the almost-dead, for it is within their bodies.
The days pass in which every soul is given the opportunity of catching
and spreading the dread disease.

"Then in this peaceful, unawareness of the terror, nine days pass and
one sees a red spot on his arm. He shies away from his friends not
knowing that they, too, have red blotches. The city is made of slinking
men, ashamed women, and scared children. The newspaper headlines scream
of the plague, but none will buy, for they fear inoculation on the part
of the newsboy. They fight and fear one another, and the plague has its
way, spreading across the city like the falling of night and missing
none.

"The Grim Reaper swings his sharp scythe, and the populace falls like
shorn wheat.

"And the stricken city becomes a place of horror. The smell of rotting
bodies taints the air and makes life impossible for those unlucky few
who have not been given the peace of death. None are interested in the
cries of the dying, and no one sees the sunken cheeks, the withered
bodies, the redding flesh. Do you like that picture, Theodi?"

"You speak harshly, Sandrake."

"You paint a prettier one," said Sandra, scorning him. "Go home
and dream. Let your imagination roam--or haven't you Telfans got
imagination?"

"We have, but--"

"You utter fool! To stand there like a stick of wood between Telfu and
some lumps of worthless metal! Like the drowning man that clutched his
gold--which pulled him under. Fool's gold. Theodi."

"There is much in what she says, Theodi," added Orfall.

"It is hard to think, sometimes," said Theodi slowly.

"Men!" sneered Sandra. "The whole sex is the same, here or on any
inhabited planet. You know so much! Your vaunted power of reasoning
is so brilliant. You pride yourselves on your inflexible wills or
your willingness to accept new ideas, depending upon which your utter
self-esteem thinks is best to exhibit at the instant. Thuni, what do
you think?"

"The metal is of little importance to dead men," said Thuni promptly.
"And you claim that Terra and Pluto have machines in abundance. The
answer is obvious."

"You see?" said Sandra triumphantly.

"I've forgotten," admitted Theodi. "I'd been taught from childhood that
high power was hard to get. It is hard to think that another star has
it a-plenty and is willing, and able, to give us enough for our needs.
It is a revolutionary thought and seems unreal. A story, perhaps. Yes,
Sandrake, you shall have your power."

"Good," said Sandra, taking a deep breath. "And thanks. I'll also need
your best students for the job."

"Our best are poor enough. Gravitics were known in theory only. A
detectable phenomenon, utterly useless. We could not pass the initial
doorway--the power generating bands--because of our satellite's
absorption of the primary effects. To study the higher and more
complex effects was impossible save in theory. But you shall have them."

"I have some practical working knowledge of the stuff," said Sandra.
"One can't live and work with McBride and Hammond and the rest without
getting a bit of it. Oh, I was only with them for a few weeks at best,
but they are ardent teachers. I'll get along with the help of your
students."

"You're certain?"

"Not certain--but fairly sure. At best, you have nothing to lose and
everything to gain."

"I think we have misjudged you," said Theodi. "You're fundamentally
fine--"

"Thank you," said Sandra, simply. "Convincing you was the hardest job
I've ever done, believe me."

"Convincing the Terrans--?"

"Will be the second hardest job. Darn it, we can't use television."

       *       *       *       *       *

McBride shook his head at Steve Hammond. "Don't believe it," he said.

"You don't."

"No, I don't. Drake has something up her sleeve."

"It's a pretty big sleeve, then," grinned Hammond. "Rigging anything to
call from Telfu to Sol is no small potatoes."

"She overloaded everything in sight. That'd about make it right,"
said McBride. "It went blooey right in the middle of the third
sentence--'McBride or Hammond: Telfu in grip of serious epidemic.
Need highly charged laboratory to prepare mis-valenced compound for
synthetic serum. Danger is imminent, so implore your help for the lives
of--' and that's all. Either she's as dramatic as Shakespeare, or this
is the real juice."

"And you think it is joy-juice."

"Her past record--and yet we can't afford to pass this up. She should
know, though, that if this is the malarkey, she'll be scorned out of
the system. Both systems."

"She wrecked the lens--and she's still here," reminded Hammond.

"'Here' is right," said the pilot cheerfully. "In case you birds are
wondering about our position, Telfu is right below us by ten million
miles."

"Suppose she's got anything left of that set?" asked McBride.

"Imagine so. The thing couldn't have gone to pieces like the Wonderful
One Horse Shay. Give a call and see. If Sandra's not kidding, she'll be
listening."

"Kidding or not," laughed McBride, "Sandra will be listening."

Hammond turned on the communications set and coughed into the
microphone, watching the meters swing. Then, satisfied, he said: "This
is the _Haywire Queen_ answering S. D. I. from Telfu. Calling Sandra
Drake. If you are listening, break in. This is Hammond of the _Haywire
Queen_ listening for a repeat of previous S. D. I." Hammond broke into
Telfan and repeated the message.

Then the answer-light winked on the panel and he heard:

"This is Sandra Drake. Is it really you?"

"No," said Hammond. "Just a reasonable facsimile. What's the matter?"

"Oh!" said Sandra. There was a world of feeling in the word. "This has
been the longest seven days in my life. It worked, then."

"What worked then?"

"The communications set."

"Obviously. What did you do to it?"

"Not much, personally. I sort of managered it, though. They lent me
their best gravitic students and we went to work on the thing. We
remade everything in the set--everything that could stand it, that
is--about four times their size. That's where I came in. Some things
couldn't be increased in size without ruining the tuning, and I knew
which ones. Is my output all right?"

"Shaky, but strong enough for service."

"I'm running without an output stage. We used the output stage to drive
a super-power stage made of the beefed-up parts and when the works went
blooey, it took the Telfan output and my output with it. I'm running
off to my own driver stage."

"You've been a busy little girl," said Hammond. "What did you use for
power?"

"I talked them into giving me every power plant in the district so that
I could call you. It all went in eight minutes flat. The _Lady Luck_ is
a mess--again."

"Are you brave or foolish?" asked Hammond.

"Both," answered Sandra. "After all, this is no tea party. There isn't
a good generator on the _Lady Luck_; I ruined them all trying to call
you. Can you understand how urgent this is?"

"I think so," said Hammond. "How did you wreck the whole
shooting-match?"

"I used the gravitic generators to generate local fields and used 'em
as communications-band reflectors. Part of it was theory on the part of
the Telfans and part of it was ideas given me by your experiments with
the super-drive. Anyhow, I'll bet that Soaky is fifty degrees hotter,
now, with all the soup we put into the transmitter. That'll make your
problem easier--hey?"

"Yup," smiled Hammond. "Just like the guy whose only reason for sending
telegrams was that he hated to see the mail-carrier work so hard."

"Well, fifty degrees is one percent of the way, anyway."

"That's right," grinned Hammond. "But look, we're killing valuable time
if this is as important as it sounds. What's needed?"'

Sandra explained.

       *       *       *       *       *

"And you say the silicon won't combine? Shucks, we can do that all
right," said John McBride.

"Fine."

"Our problem is delivering the goods."

"Why?"

"Name me a container that will carry the electronic charge."

"Oh? I was thinking--"

"Don't bother," said McBride. "There isn't anything better than ten
million miles of pure and absolute space. She'll corona, and then
arc, and then she'll assume the normal charge and the stuff will come
unstuck again. And you couldn't possibly send every Telfan out into
space for a treatment. There aren't enough years in a century to do
that."

"First, we'll have to do away with Soaky," said Hammond.

"We can do that," said McBride. "The converted spacecraft are about
ready. We can get 'em off in twenty-four hours. But landing this
compound is the tricky job. How are we going to do it?"

"Let's assume that we can think of something and get the rest of this
yarn. How do you feel, Sandra?"

"Tired, sort of. I've been busy."

"I gather."

"But this slight relaxation is doing me a lot of good. Is the Lady
Thani with you? Her sister, Thuni, asked me to ask."

"She and her husband are on Terra. We didn't pass that way. But you
may tell Thuni that they are well, happy, and being treated with
Terra's best. Our main trouble is shooing away vaudeville agents, flesh
merchants, and screwball politicians who either want to tie their wagon
on behind or run their wagon up against."

"You'll never get rid of them," said Sandra. "Are they pointing with
pride or viewing with alarm?"

"The pointers-with-pride hold a very slight majority."

"That's a fair sign."

"You're right. It is. Luckily, most of the newspapers follow the
pointers-with-pride and the general feeling is that way. Most of the
malcontents fear that Telfu will have a finger in the division of the
universe and they are not going to get as much because of it. They
think we should step in and run Telfu, or Telfu may step in and run us."

"We're far enough apart to save 'em the trouble," said Sandra. "But
look, fellows, you're running back to Terra--or Sol, anyway. Can you
bring me something the next time you come? Please?"

"If possible," said Hammond.

"I need cigarettes, and clothing. I look seedy. I'm frantic for a
smoke; I know where you can buy a corpus delectable, dressed in old
clothing, for a pack of smokes."

"Willing to sell your body for a mess of potash?"

"Just about. But remember the old one--_Caveat Emptor!_"

"Knowing you--I'll remember," laughed Hammond. "How have you enjoyed
your visit?"

"So-so. It's been an experience. A lonely experience, believe me. I've
had my troubles, and I've had my triumph. Aside from the complete lack
of human companionship, it's been interesting enough."

"You mean male adoration?"

"Might as well admit it," said Sandra. "These birds look upon me
as they might view one of those platter-lipped Ubangis. I'm not
interesting nor disgustingly repulsive. Here I am, and I'd have been
washing floors for a living if it hadn't been for the fact that I do
have some experience and knowledge in gravitics. At least, I know where
to find the answer."

"Well, take it easy, Sandra, and we'll be back. Look, I'm dropping a
message-carrier with a radio spotter in it. It'll carry all of our
spare cigarettes. Can't do much about clothing. None of us wear lace
undies."

"I'll bear up," answered Sandra with a laugh. "Thanks."

"O.K., then, see you later."

"Right," said Sandra. "So long!" the set died, but before it went
completely off, they heard her say to someone in the background: "You
can turn the lights on again."

"What did she mean by that?" asked Hammond.

"I'll bet a cooky that they had the entire output of some city diverted
into her communications set. After all, what with Soaky's absorption
plus the normal power-gravitic communication, they'd do a lot of
running on a waterfall plant, or a coal burning plant to make up for
what we accomplish with a single machine in Sol. Our power took a
beating, as far as we are from it, and we know what kind of power it
takes to do anything with the gravitics on Telfu. Well, let's get
going. This seems to be the beginning of Our Busy Week."

At Hellsport, on Pluto, twenty-four huge ships were grouped. They
looked like the Devil's spawn; their upright ovoid shapes set in the
glimmering background of the light that danced from the open-hearth
furnaces of Mephisto. In the sky, the reflection glowed, and it was
known for hundreds of miles as The Eternal Fire.

But the men that were arriving were too busy to notice the picture it
presented. They were too close to that scene, although they had seen
the photographs in the _News From Hell_ and _Sharon's Post_, where
almost identical pictures filled a whole page in the roto-gravure
sections.

They kept arriving, these men who were going to Sirius to set up
another Lens. They came from resorts on the Sulphur Sea near Hell and
they all asked the reason. They came from Sharon, which lies across the
River Styx from Hell, and they asked the same question. The hurried
call sought men from their play-spots in the Devil's Mountains and from
the vacation wonderlands of the Nergal Canyon. The Great Cave of Loki
in the Æsir Plains lost a dozen or so, and Fafnir's Abyss no longer
rang to the click of camera shutters as the group left for Hellsport.
Vulcan, the frustrated volcano, felt the downward-moving footsteps of
the seven who were studying the embryonic crater that was beginning to
show signs of life under the heat of Pluto's synthetic sun; the men
left eagerly to be on their way to Sirius, but they all prayed that
the cold of Pluto's interior would remain cold until they returned.

The Hall of the Mountain King rang to their laughter as they returned
to their hotel accommodations near Hellsport, and then again was silent
as they went to Hellsport and made the last finishing touches on their
equipment.

Just before take-off time, the old familiar cry of "Where's Carlson?"
went the rounds until Carlson himself took up the general communicator
microphone and called "Here, dammit!" and was informed that it was good
because they couldn't start the lens without him. That cooled Carlson
off, because it was true and all of them knew it.

Then the two dozen mighty ships lifted in the air above Pluto and
headed for Sirius. They joined the _Haywire Queen_ on her way from the
Plutonian Lens, and after a few minutes of discussion--all done while
accelerating at one hundred and fifty feet per second per second--they
fell silent and started on the run to Sirius, nine light-years away.

The trip was made without mishap.

"Now," said McBride, through the general communicator, "in order that
we understand, I'm going to repeat the general plan again.

"This is a problem different from the central heating system. We are
not going to make a planet livable--_we are going to destroy it_!
Honestly, it is but a satellite, but the problem is only made more
difficult since it is harder to hit with a stellar beam. But enough of
that, we've got the calculations necessary.

"We intend to burn Soaky. Our trick, then, is to set up the maximum
possible heat-energy field around or on Soaky. Therefore a lens-system
such as the Plutonian Lens is out of the question. Far better is a
duplex system. We shall, therefore, send twelve of our ships to a point
in space less than thirty million miles from Sirius. This will give
us a solid-angle of considerable magnitude--a power intake, if you
will--that will extract about all that we can handle.

"The front lens-element will cause the divergent rays from Sirius to
become parallel or nearly so. We can't help but lose some.

"Now these parallel rays will hit the second element, which will be
set up less than ten million miles from Telfu. That's about as close as
we can get without losing our control due to Soaky's field-absorption.
And it will focus the entire possible bundle of energy on Soaky. Unless
Soaky is utterly impossible, we'll cook his goose. Right?"

The answer came with a laugh. Then someone asked about Soaky.

"Soaky," continued McBride, "is a satellite of Telfu. It is
approximately one quarter million miles from the planet, and is
invisible from Telfu, being less than a hundred miles in diameter. The
Telfans, by means of crude gravitic detectors, have discovered Soaky
plotted his orbit pretty well, and so we really have little to do."

Steve Hammond went to the microphone and laughed. "McBride is a master
at the art of understatement," he said. "But my contribution to the
art of eliminating planets is an anachronism. We have, on the _Haywire
Queen_, one of the most useless things in the universe. I shudder to
mention it, fellows, but there must be some good place for everything,
no matter how useless it may seem. We--and hold your hats--have a
rocket ship."

A series of groans and catcalls returned over the communicator, and
there was the shrill whistle of someone outrageously murdering "_La
Miserere_."

"Yep," continued Hammond, "Skyways, who boast that they can furnish
transportation anywhere within reason or realm of operating practice,
have furnished the _Pyromaniac_, which, named, appropriately, may
operate on or near Soaky. It is a useless bit of machinery for anything
else, and once the _Pyromaniac_ has landed on Soaky and planted spotter
generators for us to get a precise 'fix' on, the _Pyromaniac_ will be
relegated to some museum--if she doesn't get scuttled on the way in."

At this point McBride returned and finished by saying: "We shall set up
our lens, and exceeding Archimedes, 'Having a place to stand, we shall
burn up a satellite.' So now go on and make the thing cook, fellows.
You all have your orders. The _Haywire Queen_ will be a roving factor,
feel free to call us for any trouble. We've got our own job cut out for
us."

       *       *       *       *       *

The twenty-four great ships of space, already spread out across the
space between Sirius I and Telfu, began to jockey for their selected
positions in space. McBride listened to the quick-running patter of
the lens-technicians and the astrogators as they juggled their ships
into the first semblance of order. Then he turned and nodded to Larry
Timkins. Larry shook his head and left, going aloft to the rocket ship.

The loft opened and the _Pyromaniac_ diverged from the opening.
Hannigan, the _Haywire Queen's_ regular pilot, snapped the switches
briefly and the _Queen_ darted away from the free-running _Pyromaniac_
for several miles. Then the first burst of flame came searing out
in a mushroom, which lengthened to a long rapier of white fire. The
_Pyromaniac_ moved off ponderously, and the sky was cut into two parts
by the river of flame that burned in the rocket's jets. The rapier of
flame curved slightly and pointed toward Telfu.

"No worrying about him," said McBride. "We'll know where he is."

"So will the rest of the system. O.K., Jawn, you've got
the boys running--now for our problem. How do we make
Silicon-acetyldiethyl-sulfanomid?"

"Yeah. How?"

"Well, according to La Drake, their trouble is the lack of stability.
We can probably make it under high electronic charge--in fact, that's
what she was suggesting."

"What'll it do when we remove the intrinsic charge? Remember the
xenon-bromide. It falls apart when we leave the high negative."

"It's more than likely that the stuff will collapse when we neutralize."

"Do you suppose we could get it there before it falls apart?"

"You mean like the guy who used to put the light switch off and get
into bed before it got dark?" laughed McBride. "What would happen to
our xenon-bromide if we were to get it to zero charge all at once?"

"I don't know, but file that one away for future reference," said
Hammond, thoughtfully. "Make up a batch of xenon krypto-neide, or
any of that ilk which might be crystalline, and then heave it in an
electrostatically charged shell at the enemy. Upon neutralization, what
with the hellish electronic charge plus the reversion to gas--probably
white-hot from electrical discharges--we'd have an explosive that would
really be good."

"Good!" exploded McBride. "Look, my little munitions expert, the
neutralizing charge--happening instantaneously--would paralyze
everything electronic in nature for seventy miles even in space, and
the electronic charge, reaching zero in nothing flat, would cause
instantaneous decomposition of the compound. Since it is held together
electrically, the decomposition, or _burning_ rate, would propagate at
the speed of light, or approaching that velocity. _Whoooo._ Blooey for
everything in sight!"

"Funny how the human animal can always dream up a scheme for something
lethal out of every invention."

"Yeah--even while they're trying to figure out something to save a
planetful of people, they'll invent something deadly. That's one of the
things that makes us _us_. But what do we do with the Telfans?"

"Theodi says it is stable once made--do you suppose it would be stable
even if made in the forced process?"

"Let's try. Got the stuff?"

"Barrels of it," said McBride. He went to the shelves of bottles
and removed the ingredients for Telfu's antibody. He weighed the
chemicals, and placed them in a combustion boat. This he placed under
a cover-glass and then called for Hannigan to run the intrinsic-charge
generator.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the collectors began to load the ship with electrons, and the
various chemical indicators began to change color at various levels of
charge, McBride and Hammond set up long-focus microscopes to watch the
compound.

The final tube on the indicator panel changed from the mixture of xenon
and bromine to a gray-green gas, and then McBride called: "Enough,
Hannigan."

"Right, boss," said Hannigan.

"Any action?"

"Not yet. First the atmosphere of pure nothing so the stuff won't try
to combine with the aforementioned atmosphere. Then twelve hundred
degrees Kelvin, and finally the slow-cooling to form large crystals."
McBride opened a valve and the trapped air under the sealed glass
whipped out into space. "This stuff is stubborn," he added, turning on
the heater. The mixture grayed a bit, and then started to turn cherry
red all over at once. Hammond manipulated the color-temperature meter
and when the color was right, he motioned and McBride cut the heater,
riding the control all the way to room temperature.

"Anything?"

"Won't form."

"Huh?" asked Hammond. "I thought we could form anything."

"We can. But we might not live to tell about it. Some items of
unstable planetary systems are easily converted from their normal
valence-ratings to others of wide and ridiculous values. We picked
xenon for our final indicator because it fits in nice with the negative
value we need. But this stuff has valence-inertia beyond that value.
According to this stuff here, I'd say that its instability was less
than that of the carbon-chains that go into the human body."

Hammond whistled.

"And that means, little brother, that by the time we hit the right
negative charge to make this stuff combine, we'll end up with being
completely and irreplaceably dead."

"Ugh!" grunted Hammond. "Did we get anything?"

"Can't tell," said McBride. "Darned stuff sets like cement when it
cools. Warm up the tensile strength machine and we'll crush it and paw
through the wreckage."

He inspected the crushed mass a few minutes later and managed to
separate two minute crystalline specks under the microscope. "I don't
know whether these are the stuff, Steve," he said, "or whether it is
just wishful thinking. Is it better than that four ten-thousands of one
percent yield?"

"Not if you can weigh it. We started off with a hundred grams. One
percent is one gram; four ten-thousandths of one gram is four hundred
micrograms. The balance will swing over on less than ten micrograms.
This isn't even that much. No good, Mac."

"Call Theodi and ask about that catalyst-conversion stunt."

"Huh?"

"He intimated that if they could combine the silicon with the catalyst,
they'd be able to cause metathesis at better than sixty-one percent
efficient. Trick is getting silicon to combine with an already-filled
compound."

"They are better at chemistry than we," admitted Hammond. "I'll call."

Apparently the receiver in the _Lady Luck_ was attended constantly, for
the sleepy voice of a Telfan answered. He answered that he would get
Theodi, and as he was about to shut off the transmitter, another voice
came over. It was Thuni.

"Hello, Thuni," said Hammond cheerfully. "How goes it?"

"Bad," said the woman. "But I must go."

"I wouldn't," advised Steve. "Your sister Thani and her husband would
like to talk to you."

"Oh," said Thuni in a strained voice. "I'd like to speak, too. But this
expenditure of power ... I fear--"

"Nonsense. Thani has been nine light-years away for almost a year.
Think, Thuni, the light that started from our star is only one ninth of
the distance on the way, and Thani has been there and back."

"I know, but this power--"

"What's power?" laughed Hammond. "We've plenty of power."

"But we have not. Realize that the entire city of Indilee is in
darkness because of my desire to speak."

"So what?" asked Hammond. "You have the chance, have you not?"

"But I am not Sandrake, who would think nothing of expending the entire
power-availability of a whole city just to talk."

"Sandra is pretty much a human being in spite of her faults," said
Hammond. "I'm certain that any of us would have done it, just in the
same manner. In fact, I'm not too certain that Drake is inclined to be
a little inefficient, not knowing too much about the finer points of
operation. _I'd_ probably divert the power output of the whole planet
just to be sure I was heard."

"Does nothing stop Terrans?"

"Not for long," laughed Hammond. "And here's Thani. And the operator
won't be asking for another thirty thousand dollars after the first
three minutes, because there's no operator."

"I fear," started Thuni, and then ceased her worry. She finished: "I'll
hold this open until Theodi comes, at least."

"Good. That's learning to use the gifts of the universe to your own
comfort and pleasure. See you later, Thuni." To Thani, standing at his
side, he said: "Here's your sister. She needs cheering up."

Thani flashed him a smile that might have been enticing in a Terran
woman, and then turned to talk to her sister.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Meanwhile," said McBride, "I've a thought. Not a good one, but a
couple of dark ones. We know that silicon is a tough character. It
doesn't take to planetary changes with the ease of xenon, for instance.
It is way high up on the electronic-stability table."

"That's correct," said Hammond. "But we've been thinking in terms of
not trying to add the silicon, but to combine the sulphur to the rest
of the compound containing the silicon already."

"Frankly, not too much is known about the electro-combining processes
with the more complex organic compounds. But what I'm thinking is
this: A chain is as strong as its weakest link, and the attempt to
add silicon to the compound only fails. When the more active sulphur
is added, it automatically forces the silicon out of the compound,
and will continue to do so until the right electro-negative charge
is reached. Electro-combining silicon at a level less than its
electro-stability level is impossible."

"That means trouble, Mac," said Hammond slowly. "Want to try the
decomposition of silicon-fluoride?"

"Might, to kill some time." McBride reacted fluorine with silicon in a
combustion chamber and then called for Hannigan to run the charge down
again. They watched, and as they expected, nothing happened.

"That's it," said McBride. "We're stumped."

"I wonder--" mused Hammond.

"Have you any doubt? Are you thinking of automatically
operated space-chambers set up for the formation of
Silicon-acetyldiethyl-sulfanomid?"

"That might work if we had time to build 'em. But look, Mac. Suppose we
generate a terrific electrogravitic field, monopolar as according to
the first orders of gravitic fields. Generate this field in a volume
of less than a foot in diameter, and accordingly intense. Then we'll
negatize the ship, and at the same time bombard the electrogravitic
sphere with electrons from a standard electron-gun. It'll take gobs of
power, John, to drive 'em in, but the field will help, and also keep
'em there. What do you think?"

"Sort of localizing our collection of electrons, hey? Hm-m-m. We'll
have to do that in vacuo--but that'll keep the atmosphere from
combining, too, and is better as she goes. We have plenty of electrons
when the ship runs negative, and that'll tend to collect them in the
place where they're needed the most. Might work, Steve. Break out the
E-grav and we'll try."

Hammond called Pete Thurman and James Wilson and told them what he
wanted. They all set to work, but an interruption came for Hammond and
Hannigan as the _Pyromaniac_ returned in a blaze of fire.

The rocket went off, and the _Haywire Queen's_ pilot did some fancy
work until the inert rocket ship entered the space lock above. Larry
Timkins emerged, holding his head between his hands. "It's murder," he
said. "Downright murder!"

"What's murder?"

"Manipulating that fire-breathing gargoyle. Y'know how the regular
drive takes hold all at once? Well, this thing sort of hangs fire.
There's a bit of a lag--ever so little--since the jets are sheer
mechanical and the time-function requires that the mechanical linkages
from lever-turn to fuel-release, ignition, and ultimate movement--well,
they act in considerably less time than the electrogravitic drive."

"Do you have to use it again?"

"Nope. I planted the spotter-generators and--picked up a souvenir of
Soaky. Look," and he pulled a piece of crystal from his spacesuit pouch
and dropped it on the table.

"Dirty looking hunk of glass," said Hammond. "Going to use it for a
paperweight?"

"It'd go better on the gal friend's finger, but I'm going to sell it
and lay away the profits for my edification and amusement. It'll assay
four karats if it's worth a dime, and that ain't quartz."

"Diamond?" asked Hammond in surprise.

"It has an index of refraction higher than 2.4, and is harder than
Sandra Drake's heart."

"Sounds like. How did it get there?"

"Ask the bird that dropped it. I only picked it up. If I'd found it in
a blue-clay flue, I'd have mined Soaky for fair, but a loose diamond
lying on the surface is strictly a changeling. Soaky must have known
high-falutin' friends in his younger and more promising days. Call it
one of those inexplicable mysteries and forget it. I give up."

"Hm-m-m. Might be more there, hey?"

"Yeah, but the life of Telfu depends upon our getting rid of Soaky."

Thani, who heard the latter part of the discussion, came over and
looked at the uncut stone in wonder. "You will want to inspect our
satellite?" she asked Hammond.

"I'd like to," he said. "But we have no time. While we've never
synthesized anything larger than fractional-karat diamonds, and this
four to five karats worth of crystallized carbon will be worth a small
fortune to Timkins, here, the idea of forestalling help to Telfu whilst
we chase a will-of-the-wisp is strictly a phony. Besides, it looks to
us as though this one was a sport--an impossible find. Chances are that
Larry was extremely lucky."

Thani shook her head. The chances of a huge fortune in precious stones
going up the chimney because of danger to an alien race gave her food
for thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

McBride's shout cut all future conversation along this line. Hammond
called for Larry to follow, and they went to the room in which the
electrogravitic generator was being worked on.

McBride met them. "We're about ready," he said. "There's peepholes for
all."

"Peepholes?"

"Unless you want to be in an airless room along with umpty-gewhillion
electron volts. Better take a peephole."

McBride's hole was equipped with telescope and controls for the
equipment. They set their eyes to the windows and watched. McBride
explained: "First off, I open the space cock and let the vacuum of
space in. Said vacuum drives the air out, leaving the place filled
with hard nothing. That eliminates the possibility of corona with the
voltages we are going to use."

Then he depressed the generator-on control button, and the pilot lights
winked. He read the meters through the telescope, and adjusted the
variable controls until a faintly outlined sphere formed between the
radiator gravitodes of the generator. This sphere was invisible in that
it reflected no light and was transparent, but the light from the wall
beyond was refracted slightly, and the sphere was constantly changing
in index of refraction, so that the sphere shimmered like heat waves
over a meadow.

"We set the spherical warp, so. Now on the boom we insert the
combustion tube containing the mix. The insertion of the boom is easy
due to the heavy gravitic field, which attracts proportional to the
square of the distance. I think it increases the inertia-constant--"

"_Woah_, Mac. Inertia is a _property_ of matter, not a phenomenon."

"You can stir up a good argument later, here or at the annual meeting
of the Gravitic Society. Right now I'm about to turn on the heat."
McBride withdrew the boom, leaving the combustion tube in the warp,
where it was fixed against the infinitesimal point of zero-attraction,
with all sides of the boat in contracting-urge. He snapped the button
and watched through the color-temperature meter. Then, as the color was
reached, he threw over a series of controls, and the spherical field
became a riot of color.

It fluoresced, as the bombardment of electrons hit it, coming from all
sides. The sphere grew, and McBride tightened the warp by applying more
power. Still it grew as the repulsion of the electrons tried to nullify
the gravitic attraction, and McBride continued to step up the power of
the electrogravitic generator to keep the sphere from expanding.

"Hannigan," he called. "Give me just a bit more?"

"We can stand about six more electrons," laughed Hannigan. "No more."

"Give 'em to me," returned McBride cheerfully.

And then the sphere refused to be confined. It grew, and McBride made
comic motions with the hand that held the control, as if to turn the
knob from its shaft in a supreme effort to increase the power by a
single alphon.

The sphere grew to huge proportions, and McBride cranked the control
to zero just as the surface of the sphere grew instable and threatened
to expand without limit.

His other hand turned the heat control slowly down, and the color of
the combustion tube died. A hiss of air entered, and they ran inside to
see the result.

The combustion boat was ablaze with scintillating crystals. Beautiful
blue-green crystals that were half-hidden in the gray-yellow powder of
the catalyst. Their surfaces caught the lights, and sent little darting
spots of blue fire dancing over the approaching people.

McBride lifted the combustion tube with a pair of tongs. "This is the
pure stuff," he said quietly. "Looks like a good crop this year, too.
What's it insoluble in, Steve?"

"Sulphur dioxide, according to Theodi."

"Good. We'll remove the catalyst with that and weigh the residue which
will be the entire output of our hundred grams of stuff. The percentage
will be higher than .004%, I'd say. Come on--"

The communicator barked: "McBride! McBride! This is Peters on Number
One, Telfan element."

McBride answered: "What's the matter?"

"Nothing. We're in! We had a bit of trouble getting the warp going at
this end. The image-size of Sirius when projected by a lens as close as
the fore element is larger in diameter than Sirius is according to the
distances involved, you know, and getting the warp started across the
face of the Telfan Lens was some going. But we're about to thicken the
center and shorten the focal length of the aft element right now."

"O.K. No trouble, hey?"

"Excepting it is hot in the hind-end stations. The interstices that
give the spill-overs from Lens One do a swell job of heating up the
stations when it hits."

"Sirius is hot stuff."

"Look, Mac, how much energy will it take to ruin Soaky?"

"Well," grinned McBride, "Lothar's 'Handbook of Useless Facts' says
that a globe of ice the size of Terra, if dropped into Sol, would melt
and boil so quick it wouldn't go '_Psssst_.' Is Carlson handy?"

"Here, Mac. On the hind surface in the flitter and it is hotter than
the hinges of Hell."

"The one on Pluto?"

"No, the one in the real Nether Regions."

"O.K., Carl. You're the balance wheel in this outfit. If you must
aberrate, lean outward a bit, will you? I'd hate to singe the pants off
of a couple of billion Telfans whilst trying to save their lives."

"I'll keep an eye on it," promised Carlson.

"_Eye?_" grunted Peters. "He means _ear_. Or has Carlson got his
semicircular canals in his eyes?"

Hammond interrupted with a gloating shout. "Mac! We're in! Ninety-one
percent. Pure, crystalline Silicon-acetyldiethyl-sulfanomid. And the
charge is almost equal to the galactic mean; meaning that the stuff is
stable."

McBride nodded and said into the communicator: "Our half is did, boys.
All that stands between we-all and Telfu is a stinking, one-hundred
mile satellite. Frankly, I'm agin it!"

Peters did not answer McBride. He shouted, his voice strained with
excitement: "Here comes Soaky now, around the edge of Telfu. This is
it, gang. Bore him deep and give him Hell!"

Sandra Drake sat down on the edge of a hard bench and took a deep
breath. With her free hand, she rubbed her eyes and pushed the stray
hair out of them. Her eyes were red-rimmed and puffed with lack of
sleep. She stretched and took a longing look at the surface of the hard
bench; one of those looks that was calculating not the hardness of
the bench but wondering if she could catch forty winks without having
trouble call her away again. She decided not. She knew herself, and she
knew that as long as she kept going she could stay awake, but if she
slowed down for a moment, she'd drop off and nothing would awaken her.
And forty winks would actually make her feel worse than no sleep at all.

Outside of the window, dawn was just breaking. It was a strange dawn,
an alien sunrise, but one that was nothing new to Sandra Drake. Sirius
II was just above the horizon, but almost lost in the mists because of
its low radiation. Sirius I was not above the horizon yet, but his
strong radiation was coloring the sky blue-gray.

Sandra looked out of the window at the graying sky above. Carefully
and hopefully she scanned it but she was not surprised that nothing
was there for her to see. The idea of doing away with a hundred-mile
satellite was too much, even for McBride, Hammond, and the rest
of their gang. A hundred miles of celestial body was not large as
celestial bodies go, but against man's futile efforts it was simply
vast.

In all of the man-made works on Terra, Pluto, Venus, Mars, and Luna,
considerably less than the volume of a hundred-mile sphere had been
moved. Affected, perhaps, but not man-moved; the pile-up of rivers
behind a dam could not be counted.

So man pitting himself against a celestial object seemed almost like
sacrilege, though Sandra Drake knew that these men would take a job of
analyzing the course-constants of the Star of Bethlehem if they thought
they knew where it was now.

And as small as Soaky was against the giants of the galaxy, it was none
the less a celestial object.

So she searched the sky hopefully and was not surprised that nothing
was there. Her search was more "Will it happen" instead of "When will
it happen?"

And then a Telfan stuck his head in the room and called: "Sandrake! Can
you come?"

Sandra shook her head, rubbed her eyes again, and went.

"Now what?" she asked wearily. "We don't have to evacuate another
district?"

"No," smiled Theodi, "not that bad this time. But we are going out to
Loana--a small town not too far from here--and try out some of this
latest stuff."

"Have any hope for it?"

"I must have hope," said Theodi.

"That's selling yourself a bill of goods," said Sandra.

"I know. But unless I play self-deception to the limit, I'll quit from
sheer futility. No, Sandrake, I must hope with all my soul and I must
force myself to believe that this may work."

"I won't even mention my friends," she said.

"You are beginning to give up?"

"I hate to think of it," said Sandra honestly. "It'll be the first
time that they failed to do what they said they could do. I know they
planned it, perhaps it takes longer than they think. Or perhaps they
came unprepared; their equipment not complete. After all," and Sandra
managed a reminiscent smile in spite of her feelings, "I've seen them
running some of the haywirest equipment in the world and making it
perform. Maybe this time the law of averages caught up with them."

"You think perhaps they are finding that our satellite is too much for
them?"

"I hate to think of it. I'd hate to admit that they could fail."

"You have changed, Sandrake."

"Have I? I wonder if it is my hope that they will take me home. No,
Theodi, in spite of what I may say about them, they know their
potatoes. They're the typical genius-type. Whether they rate as
genius I wouldn't know, but they're that kind of people. Give them a
situation, and from somewhere in their memory they can bring forth the
darnedest things which fit in like jigsaw pieces to complete the whole
picture."

"I hope they continue," said Theodi. "Feel up to coming along?"

"Sure."

"Good. We need you."

"Who, me?" asked Sandra.

"Yes."

"Why?"

"Because you are alien. You are impartially alien. Though you have
friends on Telfu, they are few, and in your secret mind you class
us all as 'Telfan' and forget about sub-classifications. This
experimentation is just that, to you, and we are the subjects.
Therefore when you select one hundred victims out of a district, we get
a perfect, impartial selection; a true cross-section of the district."

"Any of you could do that."

"No. We'd be biased by our knowledge of who is important, who is the
sicker, who is young and who is old. And, though it may seem strange to
you, you have absolutely no idea of beauty. Therefore you are impartial
among the ugly and the beautiful."

"So what?"

"In experimentation on humans, we are inclined to pick those of less
value to the community. We pick the lame and the halt and the ugly. We
are inclined to pick those who are likely not to live anyway, and this
biases our selection. Come, let's get going."

"O.K. Lead on."

       *       *       *       *       *

Three hours later, and still without sleep, Sandra strode up the line
of Telfans and pointed out one after the other. Those selected followed
silently to the auditorium in the center of the village and seated
themselves. They looked neither happy nor regretful, but rather a
resignation was upon them.

Sandra said: "Is this the best place you could pick?"

"Sorry," smiled Theodi. "I didn't know it made any difference."

"I suppose it is good from a functional standpoint," said Sandra.
"Being on the stage permits them to pass before us from one side to the
other. It is the only clear place in the auditorium in which to work,
and as far as I could see, there isn't any other suitable place in
town. But being on the stage sort of makes me ... oh, come on. I'm just
tired, I guess. Where's the pills?"

"No pills on this deal," said Theodi, opening a case and removing a set
of large hypodermics. "This goes into the vein. Right in the main line.
You'll have to help."

"Me? Look, Theodi, I don't feel well enough to go shoving needles into
people."

Theodi looked up sharply. Her brash-sounding statement was made in a
hard voice in spite of its humanitarian and pleading sound. Sandrake,
to Theodi's opinion, was really feeling ill.

"It must be done," he said simply. "You fill and hand them to me."

Sandra took the first hypo, inserted it into the disinfectant, and
then filled it from an ampule. She handed it to Theodi and watched him
with fascination as he took the first Telfan in line and thrust the
needle into his arm. It went in and in, and Theodi felt around with the
needle-point until he found the vein, and then he emptied the cylinder.
"Next!" he called, and so on until the hundred had been inoculated.

"Now," said Theodi, "we'll proceed to Dorana and do likewise."

Sandra was silent all the way to the next village, and as she started
down the line of people, picking them out one by one, her face began to
whiten.

Halfway through, Sandra stopped.

"Go on," urged Theodi.

"_Go on?_" screamed Sandra. "Go on? No!"

"But--"

"Go on and on and on and on and on?" shrieked Sandra in a crescendo
that ended in a toneless, inarticulate screech. She stopped the
sentence only because her voice had no more range and she had no more
breath. "Theodi, I feel like a murderess! I go on selecting people as
I would select specimens to be speared with a mounting pin and stuck
on a cardboard. I point them out. They follow dumbly with a look of
resignation. They come and you try something new on them--every time it
is something new, and you don't know whether it'll kill 'em or not! I
can't stand it."

"But who can we have to do this?"

"Get one of your own to do your own dirty work! You need me! Bah!
Suppose--?"

"Suppose we have the right combination?"

"Suppose you have? You haven't--and you know it."

"I wouldn't say that."

"I would. You're just experimenting." Sandra's lip curled over her
perfect teeth in a perfect sneer. "Experimenting on your own kind. And
I'm no better. You should hate me--and I'm beginning to hate you and
every one of you."

"This must go on--"

"It'll go on without me."

"Come on, Sandrake. Buck up. Here, I'll give you a sedative and you
sleep for an hour. You're over-tired. Then--"

"Then nothing. I can't go on murdering your people any more."

"It's not murder. It's--"

"It's worse than murder. You go on filling them with colored water and
telling them that you think that this is the works--and you know it
is just another blind try! Go away!" Sandra whirled and ran blindly.
Across the field she ran, out and away from the village. On and on she
ran, until she fell breathless beside a small brook.

Thankfully, she dabbled in the brook with her tired feet, and laved the
cool water on her wrists and forehead. She drank sparingly, and then
stretched on her back to relieve the strained muscles that seemed to
make her back arch almost to the breaking point.

Unknowing, Sandra relaxed as the ground supported her back, and with
the suddenness of falling night, Sandra slept.

Her dreams were less restful than the sleep. They were filled with a
whirling panorama of lights, disembodied faces, grinning, leering faces
who watched long, brutal needles find the vitals of mute sufferers
whose only visible admission of unbearable pain was the tortured look
on their mobile faces. And through the dream, McBride and Hammond
fought against a huge metal barrier against which their mightiest
efforts were futile.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day wore on as Sandra slept, and night came, and in all that time
Sandra had hardly moved. As the darkness fell, she aroused enough to
drink from the brook and settle herself in a more comfortable position.
Afterward she did not recall awakening at all but she did select a
thick thatch of soft moss the second time and she wondered about it
later. And it was about midnight when Sandra awoke.

She was slept out, rested. But the self-hatred was still vivid. The
dream had kept it there, and though her body was rested, her mind was
still tired from the furious mental action that went on even as she
slept.

She stretched, rolled over on her back, and considered her actions
of before with distaste. That had been a spectacle, and she hated
spectacles except when they made her appear in a better light. She
searched the sky wearily, picking out Garna, which was Telfu's sister
planet, and Ordana, the behemoth of the Sirian system, both of which
were shining close to the bright Geggenschein of Sirius. Above her,
she spotted the place where all Telfans watched--the spot where Soaky
should be according to their calculations. It was not a spot, but an
area, and Sandra scanned it in a futile manner.

Nothing yet.

A minute change in the sky along the horizon made her turn quickly,
hopefully. She scanned the sky carefully, and yet she knew that looking
at the starry curtain was futile unless the scene became so evident
that it could not be missed. She could see nothing, and besides, Soaky
was supposed to be above, not on the horizon.

She looked above again, but there was nothing to see. Puzzled at
that--that _something_ that had caught her attention along the horizon.
She shrugged, and in trying to rationalize she admitted that it might
have been a meteorite; and she knew that she was overanxious.

It was the same, she knew.

But was it? Was it?

_Was it?_

No, but what in the name of--?

Garna and Ordana and Geggenschein were gone from the Telfan sky. What
was this? Why should planets disappear?

Planets were about as permanent as--but they must still remain, it
was their light that was gone! Sandra shouted. McBride! The lens. In
her mind she saw the scaled layout; Sirius, Telfu, the other planets,
and Soaky, the satellite that was oh, so close to Telfu. Place two
biconvex lenses, one near Sirius and one near Telfu--and any light from
Sirius that could normally reach Telfu--and the planets in line from
Sirius--would be cut off by the lens, refracted into the energy beam
that would ultimately be focused on Soaky.

They'd started at last! Sandra looked upward into the area containing
Soaky.

And as she looked, a mite of colored pinpoint appeared in the sky
above. It did not rise into the incandescence, it leaped. It passed
upward through the red, the orange, the yellow, and the blue with
lightning-flash speed, and then settled down in color to an intolerable
white. It seared the eyes, that microscopic speck, and its brightness
made it appear huge.

Sandra shook her head and looked down. The darkness was fading, and
sharp shadows of the low bushes and herself marked the ground. The
stars beside Soaky began to fade to the eye, and as the brightness took
on solar brilliance, it was like the sudden return of daylight.

A flicker of the light caused Sandra to look into that intolerable
light again. No, Soaky was still going strong. But it was
scintillating, now, and there were streamers of incandescent vapor
leaving the coruscating nucleus that was Soaky.

Full against Soaky the Sirian beam drove, and the surface vaporized.
The streamers were the high-temperature vapors of incandescent metal,
being driven away from the tortured satellite by the radiation pressure
of that intolerable brilliance. The vapors condensed in finely divided
droplets of metal, but still floated away in lines and whorls.

The landscape around Sandra was in full light, now, and the shadows
were no longer sharp. The boiling, blue-white vapors were rushing from
the satellite at high velocity, and they spoiled the point-source of
light. They danced and flickered in the sky, and as Sandra watched, a
slight twinge of terror crossed her, and she caught her breath.

This was not right. This was--was defying God Himself. And Sandra,
never awed by the men themselves, fell in fear before the visible
evidence of their ability. It was not right, this utter destruction
of a celestial body by man. Men were supposed to be motes--bacterium
on the skin of an apple--not mighty motes capable of almost literally
eating the apple that--not eating but destroying ruthlessly--the apple
that was spoiling their barrel.

And Sandra, not even awed by the God of her people, prayed to Him
in fear. Fear, because people of her race dared to tamper with the
universe.

But then the light passed away, and no omnipotent lightning flashed
across the universe to destroy it. The night fell again, and darkness,
unspoiled, crowded the landscape leaving Sandra light-blind. She
fumbled aimlessly in the darkness that was by contrast the utter
blackness of no-light.

Sandra Drake was not alone in that. Half of the people on the planet of
Telfu were blinking in the darkness; silently groping their way into
their houses. Their tongues were stilled by the awesome sight.

Sandra brushed her tattered skirt and smiled. She was a long way from
Indilee and she wanted to be there as soon as she could. She was
beginning to feel the pinch of the months of loneliness; before, it was
futility to lie awake at night and think of the touch of a human hand
and the sound of a human voice. Yes, she even admitted to the desire
for a bit of admiration, after all, it had been her meat and drink.

But now it was a dream about to come true. There would be people of
her own kind. People who could laugh at the hardy jokes of her race,
and appreciate the casual acceptance of doing absolutely nothing for
periods of time. The verbal sparring and blocking would be there,
too; the nice trick of forcing someone into a trap of his own making
and springing it with--not double talk--but triple talk. The sound of
people who could discuss both downright earthy things and high theory
with the same words but with slightly different inflections in their
voices, and be understood by others who knew both lines of talk.

She gave a short laugh. They would never know whether she did it from
sheer altruism or because she was scared to death at the idea of being
exposed to andryorelitis.

She blinked. The sky flared briefly ahead of her in a brilliant and
colorful display of some auroral discharge. It illuminated one full
quarter of the celestial hemisphere in flowing color. Sandra thought
and remembered a man saying: "The charge on Station One is so great
that at twenty thousand feet it would arc a million miles or more." The
words and the distances were forgotten, and probably wrong due to her
faulty memory for those details, but she did remember something of that
nature.

Obviously, one of the Stations had landed with a load of
Silicon-acetyldiethyl-sulfanomid. The not-quite-perfectly neutralized
electronic charge must have ionized the upper air in a sprinkling
corona.

From another corner of the sky, a similar flare of color flashed, and
it was followed by flashes from near and far, each one creating a
streaking display of celestial fireworks.

At the sight of that auroral display, Sandra's head went up, her
shoulders went back, and there returned to her step a bit of that
lilting walk. She smiled crookedly and then broke into that saucy grin.
She set her foot on the road to Dorana, from where she could get a ride
back to Indilee.

There were Terrans here, all right. Her Terrans that nothing ever
stopped. They came--and brought the goods with them.

But--who brought them?

Sandra Drake.

Throughout the night, the flashing of the celestial fireworks told
the whole planet that Terrans were bringing the needed drug to Telfu.
And with each flash, as with each mile, a bit of the old Sandra Drake
returned.

There were a lot of miles back to the _Haywire Queen_.

                               THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FIXER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
