The Project Gutenberg eBook of Latent Image, by Wesley Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Latent Image

Author: Wesley Long

Release Date: June 10, 2022 [eBook #68280]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LATENT IMAGE ***





                            "Latent Image"

                            by WESLEY LONG

                         Illustrated by Orban

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Astounding Science-Fiction, May 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


John McBride stood on the roof garden of Satan's Hotel, looking across
the River Styx at Sharon. To his left, the River Styx emptied into the
Sulphur Sea, and in the evening sky to his right, the dancing flames
lighted the cloud banks over Mephisto, where the uranium smelters
worked on a nonstop plan.

John McBride was in Hell.

But Hell is a city on Pluto, where the planners had a free hand
because no intelligent life had ever scarred the planet until man came
with his machinery and his luxury and his seeking for metal. Uranium
had been found in plenty on Pluto, and so man had created a livable
planet from the coldest, most forbidding planet in the System.

John McBride was in Hell, on Pluto, but his mind was dwelling in a
little cube that rotated about a mythical spot halfway between Sol
and Pluto; one of the many stations that created the space warp that
focused Sol on Pluto with an angle of incidence equal to the incidence
of Sol on Terra. Enid McBride was back there in that minute station,
and John McBride wanted to be with her.

But Dr. Caldwell, the resident doctor of the Plutonian Lens, said:
"John, if you've got to go to Pluto, that's O.K. But you can't take
Enid with you. That's strictly out, with a capital 'O,' get me?"

"I suppose--"

"I've been doctoring for many years, John. It's safe for you to run
off for a week or so, but don't move Enid. Your kid won't be born for
a month, yet, but if you subject her to the 4- or 5-G you need to get
from here to Pluto, you'll have--not only the baby, but as nasty a mess
as you've ever seen! Take it from me, fella, 4-G is worse than a fall
if you keep it up for hours. No dice!"

"O.K.," said John, unhappily. "She'll be all right?"

"Sure," said Caldwell. "Besides, all you can do now is to sit around,
bite your fingernails, and ask foolish questions. If I had my way,
you'd be away when the youngster is born, that'd save you from a lot of
useless worry."

"That isn't fair."

"I know you feel that way. Enid does too. But it is still sort of
futile. You want the right to worry; go ahead and worry. After all,
there are enough people around the Lens that know you are worrying.
She'll be all right, I tell you!"

"You'll let me know if anything turns up?"

"That's a promise, John."

So John McBride was standing on a roof garden in Hell, thinking how
appropriate it was. He was in Hell, all right. Hell was a nice place
to be, warm, pleasant, and happily balanced. But it was no place to
be when your wife is nineteen hundred million miles away. Ah, well,
another week of this and he would be racing homeward.

Home! That was funny, to consider home, a place in space where gravity
was furnished by an mechanogravitic warp, and where there were no
windows to open, and where you lived in a cube of steel three thousand
feet on a side, mostly filled with the items required for living plus
the maze of equipment required to maintain the great lens that gave
Pluto its sun.

Home! It was a far cry from his boyhood home on Venus, where the
greenery of the forest fought with the very walls. But home is where
you like it, and McBride liked it.

He wished that he were there, for he felt that Enid needed him.

Then with that perversity of nature that people call fate, a bellhop
approached him and handed him a spacegram. McBride tipped the boy and
opened the envelope easily. He'd been getting 'grams by round numbers
for several years, and this was no novelty. He was not aware of its
importance until he opened the folded page and read:

    JOHN MC BRIDE
    SATAN'S HOTEL
    HELL, PLUTO

    HIT SKY FOR HOME. ENID IN NO GREAT DANGER FROM FALL, BUT HER
    RECOVERY WILL BE ASSISTED BY YOUR PRESENCE.

                                                              CALDWELL.

McBride read the words twice, and then looked around himself, wildly.
_Hit Sky_ was easy to say--but at 6-G it would take just over one
hundred hours to make the passage. Four days minimum!

McBride raced to the elevator, chewed his fingernails while the car
rode him down the hundred and seven floors with that snail's pace
caused by many stops. He shot out of the elevator door, caromed off the
opposite wall into an ash tray which he upset and sent a small cascade
of sand across the floor. McBride coasted to a stop before the hotel
manager's desk and tossed the 'gram in front of him. The manager read
and looked up in sympathy.

McBride said: "Get me a reservation on the next sunward-bound ship.
Emergency stop; they'll make the stopoff with an emergency."

"Right." The manager spoke into the phone and then said: "And you'll be
checking out?"

"Yes. Have one of the boys collect my stuff and ship it out to Station
1."

"O.K., McBride, we'll see that your stuff is taken care of. Ben!" he
called out through the door, "hurry up on that reservation, and see
that a car is ready to take Mr. McBride to Hellsport."

"T'won't be necessary," said Ben with a glum face. "The _Uranium
Lady_ just took off fifteen minutes ago, and there isn't another ship
scheduled out of Hellsport for five days."

"Five days!" groaned McBride. "Anything flyable on this planet?"

"Nothing that would take a run to the Lens," said Ben.

"Sure?"

"Almost positive. However, I'll put a request on the radio that may
smoke out an unknown."

"I'll buy the thing if they won't let me go any other way," said
McBride.

"We understand," said the hotel manager.

McBride stamped up and down the hotel lobby for an hour. His luggage
came down, all collected and prepared. He called Caldwell, and spoke to
him for an hour, but Dr. Caldwell's protestations didn't help McBride.
Enid had fallen from a chair while cleaning out a shelf, and was
resting easily, no complications. Yes, there was some pain, enough to
make Enid want her husband near. No danger, no, but it would be best if
he were there.

But McBride was still one hundred hours and nineteen hundred million
miles away.

John McBride didn't see the messenger boy bringing the message until
he almost bumped into him. "Mr. McBride, here's your answer," said the
lad, and he saw McBride rip the envelope open with a quick gesture to
read the following:

    MC BRIDE:

    EXPERIMENTAL SPACESHIP _HAYWIRE QUEEN_ AT YOUR COMMAND IF YOU CAN
    REPAIR ALPHATRON. MEET ME AT HELLSPORT.

                                                STEVE HAMMOND (SKYWAYS)

McBride said to the messenger: "It's grabbing at straws, but get me a
cab and I'll take a whirl at it."

"Think you can do it?" asked the lad.

"Don't know. I'm desperate. After all, it's a wild chance because if
Steve Hammond and his gang haven't been able to repair it, how can I
expect to?"

"Give it a whirl anyway, sir," said the lad.

"That I'll do," said McBride. "And now that cab!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Haywire Queen_ stood above McBride as he met Steve Hammond.
"What's your trouble, John?" asked Hammond.

McBride explained. Then he asked: "What's yours?"

Hammond smiled wryly. "That's a long, sad tale. We've been trying to
increase the efficiency of the drive, you know. We've been hunting up
and down the electrogravitic spectrum for a more efficient operating
point. We found what we knew already; that we were using the most
efficient part of the E-grav range. We went all the way from down
low, where the stuff is just beginning to make itself detectable
to up high where the equipment is slightly fragile and extremely
experimental in construction. Then we took a run at the mec-grav,
with absolutely no success other than to ruin a whole bank of relays;
the mechanogravitic warp extended farther than we anticipated when we
hit the mechanogravitic resonance of the drive bar, and hell sort of
flew all over in great hunks. One of the interesting items was the
closing of the E-grav field controls, and the resulting power drain
over-loaded the alphatron. We limped in using a jury-rigged line from
the lifeship's alphatron and made a something-slightly-less than a
crash landing here on Pluto.

"So now we're either stuck here until we get the new alphatron we
ordered, or you can give us a few hints on household repairs."

"What's your lifeship's output?" asked McBride, following Hammond into
the spacelock.

"About eleven hundred alphons."

"You'll need about fourteen hundred to take off from Pluto," said John.
"How's the big one?"

"Deader than the proverbial dodo, whatever that was."

"Dodo?" laughed McBride. "That was a mythical critter that went around
dead, I think. It was so dead, even when alive, that when it really
died, it was really dead."

"You'd better stick to alphatrons," laughed Hammond.

"Speaking of the equipment, have you tried to get a replacement on
Pluto?"

"Nothing didding. About our only chance is to haywire something
together. But remember, we still have to make a landing, somewhere,
and that means a safety factor is somewhat to be desired."

"Not at all. If we can take off safely, we're in!"

"Explain. As I was taught in school, anyone can fly a spaceship, but it
takes a pilot to land one."

"Sure, but remember you'll be stopping off at the Lens. We've got
replacements there that will enable you to make space repairs and go on
from there in safety."

"Didn't think of that. Well, here's the mess!"

McBride needed no close inspection to see that the alphatron was
definitely defunct. A foul smell, faint, ephemerally pungent,
permeated the room. It was the smell of burned synthetic coil dope and
field-winding varnish which has been described as smelling something
like a frying toupee.

"Not only dead," was his cryptic remark, "but dead and sutteed!"

"Fricasseed," corrected Hammond. "Anything we can do?"

"Is the winding intact?"

"We thought of that, too. Nope. Electrical inspection indicates that
the winding is melted together in several places. You couldn't unwind
the coil, let alone rewind it with fresh insulation. We've got a couple
of gallons of insulation handy, if you get a good idea."

"Not yet. But look, Hammond, have you tried the magnetogravitic
spectrum yet?"

"No. That was our next program."

"I'd have tried that first," mused McBride. "Knowing that the drive
depends upon the action of a cupralum bar under high magnetic
density plus an electrogravitic warp, I should think that the close
relationship between the magnetic and electronic phenomena would lead
you to try the mag-grav first."

"I didn't want to start at the top," said Hammond dryly. "In spite of
the fact that Dr. Ellson claimed to have discovered a region in the
mag-grav spectrum that produced a faint success."

"Well, what I'm thinking is that we can rip up the E-grav generator and
use the field coil for the alphatron. It'll carry electrons as well as
it carries alphons, you know."

"Better," said Hammond. "But what do we use for an E-grav?"

"First we'll hunt up through the spectrum of the magnetogravitic
spectrum. If that doesn't work, we can add the warp produced by your
mech-grav, run from the lifeship's little alphatron. Right?"

"It's an idea. Seems to me that I've heard somewhere that the combined
warps of magneto- and mechanogravitic produces some vectors in the
electrogravitic spectrum."

"Mind if I brag?" asked McBride. "That was in a paper I scribbled for
the Interplanetary Gravitic Engineers. Purely a matter of making a
few dimes, at the time there was nothing practical about it, since
we had E-grav generators before we discovered the mechano- and
magnetogravitics."

"We?" grinned Hammond. "You were still three generations in the future
at the time, grandpa. But it's worth a try."

"Never thought that my effort was going to be worth a hoot," smiled
John McBride. "Let's give it a whirl."

"O.K. I'll call the gang." Steve Hammond stepped to the communicator
and spoke. "Jimmy, Pete, Larry! Come a-running and bring your cutting
pliers!"

       *       *       *       *       *

From what was obviously three different parts of the ship, three voices
answered.

Pete arrived first. "Meet John McBride of the Plutonian Lens,"
introduced Hammond. "This is Pete, whose whole name is Peter Thurman,
and who is the guy who knows all about drive equipment."

Pete grinned. "You see us hitting sky at two hundred feet per," he
said, shaking McBride's hand.

Jimmy arrived, with Larry not far behind. "These are James Wilson and
Lawrence Timkins, respectively. Jimmy is the alphatron expert, and
Larry knows all there is to know about electrical circuits and wiring."

"He's ribbing me about those relays," laughed Larry, while Jimmy was
saying: "Y'smell that smell? That was my pride and joy."

"Tell me," asked McBride, "what does _he_ do?"

"Who, Steve? Oh he's just the bird that wanted the things done that
resulted in this mess. He's primarily responsible."

"Hm-m-m. That puts the fix on the whole thing," said McBride. "Well,
fellow, you've heard about Enid. I've got to get home. If we can fake
up something so that the _Haywire Queen_ will cut loose with a couple
of hundred feet per for long enough to get me to Station 1, I'll see
that your ruined equipment is replaced so that you can make a safe
landing. Say! How come you do not carry a spare alphatron?"

"Why doesn't man come with two hearts?" asked Jimmy. "That's because
they're usually dependable. No one ever tried to run two brains off of
one heart--that's why one heart stands up pretty well. I can imagine
the trouble that would result if two involuntary control centers were
running the same heart--it would be something like what happened when
the mech-grav made the E-grav cut in--something would blow a fuse."

They laughed, and then Hammond explained about the program. "Right away
quick we'll try the mech-grav along with the mag-grav. That sounds like
our best bet for something that works. Also breach the lifeship and
sabotage the little alphatron for the mech-grav. Might as well have it
down here where it's needed." In an aside to McBride, he added: "Is
this like your place? No fuses, no safety devices, no spare equipment
because some screwball is always filching something off of a bit of
standard equipment to make an experimental set-up?"

"Anything but the running and operating gear of the Lens stations,"
said McBride, "is subject to change without notice. I've even
seen a spare mech-grav generator used to counterbalance Jim Lear's
teeter-totter. Jim's dad is on Station 3 and there isn't any kid of
that size and age on Three. Did a good job, too, since Bob Lear fixed
the mech-grav density control with a switch that urged the far end of
the plank so that Jim was lifted and dropped at the right speed."

"Sort of expensive counterbalance, wasn't it?"

"I suppose so, but Bob said it was better than having to crank his son
up and down by hand. Besides, we have lots of power out at the Lens."
McBride paused. "Say. Do you run the _Haywire Queen_ with this crew?
Who's pilot?"

"Hannigan. But he got hurt when the works blew up. He ran us in all
right, though any of us can take a trick at landing. But he's taking
a rest cure to soothe his nerves; they got a scrambling from too much
electricity."

"Too bad."

"Not so bad. Just made him jittery. He'll be all right in a week. But
we won't have to run home without a pilot. I've got one coming out in a
couple of hours. Drake. Ever heard of a pilot named Drake?"

"Seems to me that the name is familiar," said McBride slowly. "But not
too clear, I'll know him when I see him."

"I won't. Conducted the hiring by mail, and then gave him a call when
the need came--your need, I mean. They told me that Drake was out of
the building, but that he'd be at Hellsport as soon as they could find
him. Has a pretty good record, too, save for one thing--"

"Steve," said one of the men, "can you give us a lift? The _Beetle's_
alphatron is somewhat heavier than we can handle around this corner."

"Sure. And the next time we're at Terra, have 'em fix the hoist rail,
huh?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Wires, bunched cables, and scraps were a tangled mess on the floor.
Tools were strewn about in profusion. A box of nuts and bolts had
overturned and cascaded the small parts across the floor below the
workbench. But the work was progressing in fine shape in spite of the
seeming confusion and messiness. To someone who knew these men, it was
obvious that they knew their business and how to use their tools even
though the place was ankle deep in junk. To someone who knew them not,
the place looked like a junk shop.

"Is this the place where the finest brains in space work out the
intricate problems?" asked a cool contralto with a cynical tone.

McBride, who had just finished welding a small angle bracket on the
bottom of the mech-grav generator, looked up, blinked, did a double
take, and then stood up. The torch burned the air in his limp fingers,
wasting the canned gas.

"You! Drake! _Sandra_ Drake!"

"Is there another?" asked the saucy voice.

"I thought that Sandy was a nickname," snapped Hammond.

"It's Sandra," said she, "and it looks to me that your friend McBride
is always up to his ears in junk!"

John extinguished the torch and advanced upon the picturesque red-head.
"Have you still got your license?" he asked. "After that stunt you
pulled--"

"Your political pals took away my private license, but I'm still
registered as a pilot. This, I've been told, is an emergency, and,
therefore, I am compelled to run your junk-heap for you. I'm willing
for no other reason than the fact that my assistance to you in your
so-called time of need will be instrumental in getting my private
license back. Are you ready to go--and where?"

"We're about ready to try," said Steve.

"Try?" scorned Sandra. The perfect features twisted in a sneer. "Aren't
the best brains working today?"

"Look, Pilot Drake, this is an experimental crate from way back,"
snapped Hammond. "You're likely to find yourself drinking coffee out
of a relay-shield. We blew out the only alphatron this side of Jupiter
by mishap, and John and we have been trying to gain the same effect by
trusting to an experiment made several years ago but abandoned."

"I think I'll have none of it," snorted Drake. "I'd like to see a
little more of the solar system before I die. You can get some other
fool to run your patched-up ash can."

"Drake," said Steve Hammond, "if you do not run this crate for us--or
at least try as hard as we are trying--I'll personally see that you
are mentioned whenever skunks, lizards, and butyl mercaptan are talked
about. This is an emergency."

"Mind telling me just what type of life-and-death run you're going
for?" asked Sandra, loftily.

"Enid McBride is hurt and needs him," said Hammond, pointing at John.
"There's a small matter involved--a small matter of a baby's life,
possibly. If John can get there in time, his presence will give Enid
the amount of lift she needs. Get me?"

"Baby?" sneered Sandra. "What woman in her right mind would have--"

"Your mother," snapped Hammond, "and she made a mistake. Now will you
rectify her error and do something of value for once in your ill-used
twenty-four years?"

"I've no choice," said Drake. "I'll do it. But--"

"No buts. You're under suspension right now, and how you handle the
_Haywire Queen_ marks your card. Take it--or take it!"

"Where's the pilot room?" asked Sandra in a cool tone.

"Below--where it usually is in a ship of this type. Your orders will be
coming soon enough, I hope."

"And our destination will probably be Station 1?"

"Right. Will you need navigational details?"

"I can work them out."

Drake left, and the men put the finishing touches on the double-warp
set-up. Hammond turned the equipment on, running them at test power
while Jimmy and McBride adjusted the generators for maximum output.

Pete inspected the myriad of little glowing lights on the informer
panel and said that the ship was working properly from dome to foot.

"Grab a rolling chair," said Hammond to McBride. Then he snapped the
communicator and said: "Drake. Up at twenty feet per."

"Up at twenty feet per second per second acceleration," responded
Sandra in that flat, personless voice.

"We hope," said Steve with a short laugh.

       *       *       *       *       *

An alarm gong sounded through the open communicator, and directly
afterward, the men in the power room could hear the relays closing. In
the room above them, an oil switch closed with a crashing sound, its
racket hardly muffled by the steel-grating floor. A rheostat whirred
as it followed the impulses sent from the control board in the pilot's
room; it whisked over a dozen contacts and came to rest. Four big pilot
lights winked into brilliance above the informer panel, indicating
that the ship was, 1.: Air-tight; 2.: Properly air-conditioned; 3.:
Possessed of sufficient power for flight; and 4.: Ready to lift. Behind
a two-foot dial, a diffused light glowed, illuminating the face which
would indicate the acceleration in feet per second. A small dynamotor
whined up the scale and into the region of inaudibility, and a series
of safe lights went on; lights that would be on all the time regardless
of what happened to the rest of the operating equipment. The meters
of the alphatron moved slightly, and then leaped toward the top peg,
stopping before they hit as the meter-sensitivity was cut accordingly.
The mag-grav generator meters followed suit, and then the mech-grav
meters went through the same dance. Then, far above them in the larger
part of the ship, a remotely controlled tap on a bank of high-powered
resistors made two steps forward, and an oil switch that connected the
drive's electronic requirements to the closed-system turbine went home.
Energy charged the gravitic equipment with operating power--

And the _Haywire Queen_ lifted upward!

The accelerometer moved quickly up the scale toward twenty.

"We made it!" yelled Jimmy Wilson.

"We're in!" shouted Pete Thurman.

"Thank God!" breathed McBride. "I'm going to call the Lens and tell Doc
Caldwell that I'm on the way--Hammond, what is that woman doing?"

The accelerometer had passed twenty, and was approaching twenty-five.

"Probably bunged the accelerometers out of sync when we crash-landed,"
said Hammond. "They're the standard Hooke Accelerometers, you know, and
we may have stretched the spring a bit. She'll stop soon."

"It's all right," said McBride. "It just makes us get there sooner, but
she shouldn't be playing with the drive this close to Pluto. If we've
missed something, we'll smack."

The meter passed thirty and headed for forty feet per second per second.

"Little over one Terran G," mentioned Pete. "She probably has the usual
Pilot's Fever."

"I know," agreed Hammond, "but her inherent desire to grab sky
shouldn't make her play foolish with a brand-new drive."

The meter touched fifty for an instant and then went on up toward
sixty. It did not stop at the green line that indicated two Terran G,
but passed it and proceeded on toward seventy feet per. It climbed to
eighty, passed, approached ninety, passed, and still climbed with a
precise linearity that made the men admire the steady hand on the main
power lever in spite of whose hand it was.

At one hundred feet per second per second, Hammond said: "When is that
dame going to stop?"

"Call her down," suggested Larry.

"Better wait. No use making her nervous this close to Pluto. Bawl her
out and she's likely to make the wrong move--and one move would be too
much!"

The pressure of 4-G held them to their padded seats, and their heads
were fixed immobile in the head braces, all watching the dial climb.
It passed one-thirty, went on up the dial to one-forty, and then the
voice of Sandra Drake said, weakly:

"When are you fools going to stop?"

Hammond gaped. "Who? Us?"

"Who else?" snapped Drake.

The meter touched one-fifty.

"We're not doing anything. Level off, Drake, or you'll squash us flat!"

"_You_ level off. I haven't had the power lever since I adjusted it
before I hit the main switch. I can't even lift my arm now; I didn't
expect you to run this heap of junk from up there and so I didn't
adjust the arm rest."

The dial crept up past one-sixty.

"But we're not running it from here," yelled McBride. "We haven't
touched a thing since Hammond told you to take it up at twenty feet
per."

The automatic respirators started to work, pumping their rib-cages
in rhythm with their own breathing urges, and they sank into the
enveloping folds of the elastomer cushions which supported their
bodies. The meter hit one-seventy and passed it.

"Then who _is_ running the soup up?" came back the labored voice of
Sandra Drake. "If this is just a joke, cut it. I can't take much more."

"You--and all of us are doing well to take what we're getting now,"
stormed McBride. "Who--"

"Something's amiss somewhere," said Hammond thoughtfully. "At this
point, any gagster would quit. Look at the meter. One hundred and
ninety feet per! Almost 7-G! Uh--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Black waves and dizziness came, shrouding little dazzles of colored
pinpoints that danced before the eyes. The meter touched two hundred
feet per second per second acceleration, and then the drive was cut
with a snap. The compressed elastomer rebounded, almost throwing the
men from their chairs, but the cover bars held them in.

The drive was completely off; acceleration zero.

"Drake! Get the inertia switch in again!" called Hammond.

"Going in," came the weakened voice of the pilot.

The original twenty feet per started again, and it began to climb, just
as it did before. "Stay alive," said Hammond to Drake. "We need you to
shove the inertia switch in if nothing else."

"I don't care to die," came her hard voice. "I'll keep alive. You pack
of fools figure out what's wrong with your invention, that's all I ask."

"Can you crank the inertia switch down to about 5-G?" asked Pete. "Make
it a hundred and fifty feet per. Then sit there and shove it in every
time it comes out until we can get out of Pluto's grip. We've got to
have a stable place before we can do any fixing."

"You and your jackrabbit drive," jeered Sandra Drake. "Concocted by the
best brains in space. Baloney--the best space in brains, I call 'em."

"Some day," promised McBride, "I'm going to spank that woman--with a
hairbrush!"

The meter rode up steadily to one-fifty, and then dropped to zero with
a click. The oil switch closed again, and the meter started up the
scale once again. This time McBride timed it.

"Steve," he said. "We're running at twenty per, original setting, and
the acceleration is increasing at the rate of twenty feet per, also.
That means our velocity is increasing at the rate of twenty feet per
second per second per second."

"Something screwy. Larry, grab a few tools and ride below and fix that
inertia switch so that it will close automatically. No use making
Drake sit there punching on that control button every seven and one
half seconds. We're going to be running this way for a couple of hours
before we get to safe space."

"A couple of hours?" groaned Drake. "Listen, geniuses, is there any
reason why I couldn't flatten this chair out? This is killing me."

"Look, Larry, make that switch cut out at 2-G. Sandra, set your drive
for 1-G. It'll jerk our guts to pieces, but we'll be doing about
the same as any ship under a 1-G drive--no, we'll be doing better.
Something in this heap is making us accelerate our acceleration; we're
working on the second derivative. That means--"

"That means," put in McBride, "that we're running on the rate of
change of acceleration, which is the rate of change of velocity. Now
under this drive, we have a new factor, which we can call 'R' and
which stands for the rate of change of acceleration. Then, since our
acceleration is increasing with respect to time, the linear equation:
V=AT no longer holds to express our velocity at the end of T seconds.
Our first equation under this rule becomes one to find the acceleration
after T seconds under R rate of change of acceleration. Follow? We have
Equation One:

    (1) A=RT

Then to find the true velocity at the end of T seconds and so forth, we
take the integral of that, and we have:

    (2) V=1/2RT^2

To get the distance covered in T seconds at R rate of change, we
integrate once more and come up with ... ah, let's see--Oh, sure:

    (3) D=1/6RT^3

Is that clear?"

"I'd like to see that one worked out on a blackboard," said Jimmy. "At
the present, I'll take your word for it. What I'm interested in right
now is: does this factor 'R' increase with the power setting?"

"Drake just lifted it to thirty feet per," said Hammond, "and I've been
timing it. So far, it does."

"Steve," said McBride, "if we can figure out some way of keeping
ourselves from getting killed as the acceleration hits the upper
brackets, we'll have a drive that will get us places like fury. Think
fast, brother."

Hammond looked up, just as the acceleration reached a peak, and it
snapped his head sharply. "_Whew_," he said. "This is fine stuff,
but we couldn't run anywhere very long this way. We'd shake the whole
crate loose." He was thoughtful for a minute. "Don't suppose that
blackboard mind of yours could figure out our course constants from
this saw-toothed curve we're running?"

"Sure," grinned McBride. "Since the thing is not increasing constantly,
but is returning to zero accel each time and then building up linearly
to peak, our over-all, long-time acceleration is equivalent to the
average acceleration. Besides, what difference does it make? We'll get
there somehow, and we can probably plot well enough to keep from doing
a lot of return-chasing to hit the lens."

"O.K., but we're going to have to figure a way out of this. I couldn't
stand knowing anything like this drive without trying to make it
practical."

"Wait until we can talk without getting our tongues bitten off by this
drive of yours, and we'll go to work on it."

McBride said: "And I'd say let's do it quick! Enid needs me--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Sandra Drake forced the jack-rabbitting ship into a cockeyed orbit
about Pluto after a couple of hours. They had nosebleed, jittery
nerves, aching muscles, and voracious appetites by the time the drive
was cut. They ate, smoked, took showers, and then decided to call a
conference.

Hammond opened it by saying: "There's one quick way to do this.
It's on everybody's tongue, but I have the floor and I'll voice it
first. To keep from getting squashed by our own weight under a few
thousand feet per, we need something to take up the shock--something to
counterbalance the gravity-apparent. Jimmy, how many mechanogravitic
generators have we aboard?"

"Two, including the one we're running in the drive right now. It is as
big, however."

"How's the output of our patched-together alphatron?"

"Plenty. The coil of the E-grav was much oversize, and since electrons
will rush in where alphons fear to tread, we've plenty of soup."

"Then we'll set the other mech-grav up in the nose, and extend the warp
down to envelop the ship. Right?"

"Right. And now for some kind of safety factor? Supposing something
goes blooey?" asked Pete. "And how do we maintain the relationship
between the drive's power and the counter-drive's attraction?"

"Weight-driven power controls for the counter-drive. Inertia switches
for safety. Interlocking circuits for every factor so that either the
drive failure will knock out the counter-drive, or vice versa. We'll
build this like an electric lock, so that the whole shebang must be
right on the button before she'll move. Then the failure of any part
to perform will stop all parts simultaneously. It'll probably be jerky
at first, but the prime function is to get Mac to Station 1, and from
there on in we can tinker with this thing until hell freezes over.
O.K., let's hustle the mech-grav into the nose."

Installing the mech-grav generator in the nose of the ship was not
a difficult job, since it weighed exactly nothing with the ship in
an orbit about Pluto. But the intricate job of hooking the equipment
together was to be more difficult.

They rammed holes in the bulk-heads to pass cables. They tore out
whole sections of unimportant wiring circuits to get wire for the
interlocking circuits--and when the terminals were there, the relays
and inertia switches had to be made or converted from existing
equipment.

Sandra Drake was of little help. She could make the ship perform to
within a thousandth of an inch of its design, and perhaps add a few
items that the designers hadn't included, but her knowledge of the
works was small. She hadn't thought it necessary or desirable to
understand, beyond the rudiments, how the drive worked.

In fact, up to the present time she had scorned the knowledge of any
higher intricacies; her idea had always been that men were paid to
think these things out and she was in a position to pay them for their
knowledge. Let them do it, and give them hell if it was not right. Her
hiring them automatically gave her the right to order them around like
slaves, and since the laws that govern space travel are such that a
ship's pilot or owner may demand attention to the ship, Sandra demanded
such attention, needed or not.

But this was the second time in less than a year that she had seen men
working with equipment. Before, it had been her fault, and she had
sniffed at their labors in a scornful attitude, gaining their hatred as
she had gained the dislike of so many others.

This time it was slightly different. She had been sandbagged into
this job and now it seemed as though her own life depended upon the
clearness of the minds of the men who worked over the equipment.

So she entered this strange world of nuts and bolts and small tools
strewn around in profusion, and stood amazed at the order that was
being worked out of chaos. It was apparent to her that some semblance
to order must be present, since they knew where to turn to pick up the
right tool, and because the right part was always less than a foot from
their ready hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

A headstrong, spoiled brat she may have been, but Sandra Drake was
by no means unintelligent. After John McBride had cut off a tiny
lathe-turning just in time to hand it to Pete, who seemed to need it at
exactly that moment to fit into his instrument, Sandra said to McBride:
"Is there any pattern to all this mess?"

"If there weren't, we'd really be in a mess." He opened the chuck,
advanced the rod a few inches, and started to turn the rod down to size
again.

"This," said Sandra in that infuriating voice, "is order, neatness,
and efficiency?"

"We like it," answered McBride, his eyes on the cross-feed vernier. "It
may not look like a drawing room, but we know what we're doing."

"Do you? Is this a sample of how the place looks every time the
_Haywire Queen_ goes out to experiment?"

"Undoubtedly."

"Why couldn't it be neat and clean?"

"Because we can't replace every tool back in the cabinet when we are
ready to lay it down for a minute. Because it is far better to run
cutting chips all over the floor and sweep 'em up once instead of
running the broom every seven seconds after each chip. Because it is
easier to work this way."

"Well," said Sandra, unimpressed, "the _Haywire Queen_ seems deserving
of her name."

"There have been a lot of ticklish space problems fought out in her,"
replied McBride. "Just as we're fighting one now."

"But where are your drawings? Where are your plans? Where are your
calculations?"

"Our drawings will be made by draftsmen when we make the thing work,"
answered McBride. "No sense in having a sheaf of drawings when we'll
change the thing a dozen times before it is perfected. Our plans
are step-by-step, and any result from one step may change our next
step. Our calculations and mathematical deductions will be handled by
brilliant mathematicians who can twist simple formulas around to fit
the observed data by adding or subtracting abstract terms that fit the
case."

"Sounds slightly slipshod to me."

McBride cut the part from the bar and handed it to Pete. "Enough?" he
asked, and Pete nodded over his shoulder.

"You can start on part two," he called.

McBride replaced the bar with a larger one and started to work it into
shape. "We don't need drawings," he said. "I know what Pete wants and
how they should fit together and they're fairly simple parts. He knows
what he wants and knows that I know also, so why should we make a lot
of sketches for something trivial?"

"It seems to me that this is far from trivial," said Sandra pettishly.
"You're playing with the lives of us all."

"Your life wasn't worth a peanut when you tried to run through the
lens," said McBride. "Why quibble now?"

"I lived through it," said Drake.

"You'll live through this, perhaps," said McBride. "Besides, we're not
too worried about our own lives. We're all willing to take a chance on
them for Enid."

"Yeah?" drawled Sandra sourly. "How about the rest of them? That's only
speaking for yourself."

Steve Hammond called from across the room: "What he said still goes.
He'd do as much for me!"

"Just a big bunch of mutual admirers," sneered Sandra. "Always sticking
together in a pinch."

"What's wrong with that?"

"Why didn't you think of your wife a long time ago instead of worrying
now. Fine show of nerves for the public consumption!"

"Miss Drake, as far as we are concerned, you haven't been properly
treated. Somewhere in the Good Book is a reference to sparing the rod
and spoiling the child. Do your parents twist their faces in anguish
every time they see you? They should. Anyone who has foisted upon this
solar system a stinking little, unfeeling rotter like yourself should
hate to be alone with their thoughts. Now get out of here and let us
alone."

Sandra moved back at the harshness of his voice. McBride looked behind
her and instinctively put out a hand to stop her; but Sandra thought
that the move meant violence and moved back faster. She collided with a
dangling wire from the alphatron and went rigid. She toppled, as stiff
as a board.

"Great Space!" exploded Hammond. "Jimmy, how much was that?"

"Nine hundred alphons," answered Jimmy, looking at the meters on the
alphatron and making a quick calculation. "Not enough to harm. She's
just had all of her voluntary nervous system paralyzed."

McBride stooped, picked her up, and carried her to a work-chair, which
he kicked horizontal with his foot and dropped her into it. He went
to the medicine cabinet and filled a hypo which he shot into her arm.
Gradually her too-regular breathing became humanly irregular again and
she moved to get up.

"Stay there," said McBride.

"Rest a bit," advised Hammond.

"And remember next time," warned Jimmy, "that this kind of a place is
no place to walk backwards. Another two hundred alphons--and that is
far from impossible--and you'd have been extremely dead." He wiped his
forehead with a dirty cloth, mopping the beads of nervous perspiration
away.

"I suppose that would have left you without a pilot," said Sandra. Her
sharp remark lacked her usual conviction, however, and she realized
that it fell flat. She got out of the chair and left abruptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, I'll be--"

"Be careful," said Larry. "She isn't worth it."

"I'm going to take the bad taste out of my mouth by calling the Lens,"
announced McBride.

"Go ahead," offered Pete. "We'll polish off here and by the time you're
through, we'll make a stab at it!"

McBride got a through connection to Station 1, and Dr. Caldwell came to
the phone.

"Doc," asked McBride. "How's Enid?"

"Touch and go, lad. We're still fighting."

"Bad?"

"I'm afraid to say 'no' to that one," answered Caldwell in a tight
voice.

"What does she say?"

"She's been in a coma ever since the fall, except for a minute or two
in which she called for you. John, I shouldn't have sent you away."

"Don't worry about that one. After all, you didn't know she was going
to take a header."

"Yeah, but--"

"You fix her up and we'll forget it."

"But suppose--"

"Doc, is it that bad?"

"I can not deny that she would be infinitely better off if you were
here. She needs an emotional lift."

"I'm trying."

"I know, lad, but the next ship off of Pluto is in five days and then
four more days of flight at a killing drive. Nine interminable days."

McBride debated the advisability of telling Caldwell of their
experiment, but decided against it. If he said anything about the
possibility of getting there sooner, Caldwell might tell Enid on the
chance that it might do her some good. On the other hand, if Enid
thought he were coming, and he did not come, the shock--

"O.K., Doc. We'll get there somehow."

"We'll keep fighting," said Caldwell.

He hung up the phone as Hammond spoke into the communicator. "Sunward
at thirty feet per," he said.

"Thirty feet per," answered Drake. "And may we not get burned!"

"Trusting soul," observed Hammond.

Sandra thrust the main lever home with a savage motion. Deftly she
juggled the steering levers until the ship pointed at Sol. "We're off,"
she said. "Hold your hats!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The accelerometer climbed by the second. It hit one hundred feet per,
and then slowed in its climb, approaching one twenty in an exponential
curve. In the other room, a step-by-step switch continued to click off
the contacts, and the generators in the turbine room whined higher and
higher up the scale. Minutes passed and became a half hour.

"We're in," said McBride, with a deep exhalation. "But how in the name
of sin can we tell what our acceleration is?"

"The Hooke type of accelerometer is useless when we neutralize the
gravity-apparent," agreed Hammond. "We're going to have some inventing
to do."

"I wonder what the limit of our acceleration is," said Jimmy. "It can't
be infinite, because the mechanogravitic generator above can take only
so much--"

The inertia switches went out with startling clicks, and the
weight-loaded rheostats whirred home to zero. Relays danced madly as
the acceleration went to zero once more.

"Right back where we started from," came the pained voice of Sandra
Drake. "Can't you birds think of something practical?"

She thrust the main control home once more, hooking it up to the
automatic circuit that Larry had installed. The acceleration began
again. "Now we'll have some more jackrabbit drive--but with a longer
jump," said Drake cynically.

"We'll have to limp all the way to the Lens on this drive," said
McBride. "It isn't too good, but I can't see--"

"I'm tired of this jerky stuff," said Sandra Drake entering the room.
"It seems to me that you should be able to duplicate the mess you have
here by something similar up in the nose."

"Yes?" asked Steve Hammond politely. He was interested but not
impressed.

"What I'm trying to say is this: Wouldn't a set-up similar to this
space-eating drive also be capable of exerting mechanical attraction,
thereby getting you a constantly increasing neutralizing force?"

Steve thought that one over. "Not bad. Not bad at all!"

Jimmy jumped to his feet. "It'll work, Steve. We'll have to induce
the mechanogravitic force in a cupralum bar by secondary gravitic
radiation, but it is a known phenomenon. Drakey, that's top!"

"Except for one thing," said Larry. "We're fresh out of magnetogravitic
generators. Aside from that, we can run this heap all the way to
Sirius."

Pete said: "Yeah, and if we did have one, we'd still be short a few
thousand alphons. The alphatron won't carry another generator, nor will
the little one upstairs." He grinned at Sandra. "We're not tossing cold
water on your suggestion. It'll work--but not right now."

"Then it was good?" asked Drake with the first question of honest awe
she had used in years.

"Perfect," said McBride, cheerfully. "But not quite complete. We
won't censure you for that, however, since we know that you haven't
been hanging around space-warp engineers for the last ten years. You
couldn't have known that this mag-grav generator will do service on
both ends. All we have to do is to direct the output on a two-lobe
pattern instead of a single-lobe pattern, and set our induction bar
up above in the field of the mechanogravitic we've already got there.
Jimmy, change the output pattern of the mag-grav and we'll hike aloft
with the cupralum bar." He bowed at Sandra. "Thanks to that one, we'll
be moving right along!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Pilot Drake sent the power lever home at thirty feet per, and watched
the accelerator climb to exactly thirty, where it stopped and hung.
Minutes passed, and the meter read constant.

Steve Hammond smiled wider and wider as the minutes added into a
quarter hour. "I think our cupralum hull is helping," he said.

"How?" asked Pete.

"Why, it is collecting enough leakage-warp to create a nice large warp
of its own--in which we now travel, and in which the accelerometer
reads only that factor 'R' of Mac's. That meter reads the rate of
change of acceleration. Drake, step it up to sixty."

Sandra advanced the drive, and the meter went up to sixty even.

"We're on the ball," said Hammond.

"We sure are," said McBride, passing a forefinger over his cheek. "It's
hot in here."

"I know. And you can call the Lens and tell the Doc we're on our way."

"I tried that. The lines were busy, so I shot 'em a 'gram. They know
now that we're coming."

"I wonder if your math is correct," said Steve.

"Why?"

"If it is," explained Steve, "we'll be halfway to the Lens in three
hours from start--no, wait a minute. We're running at sixty feet now.
That means a little better than two hours! But if they are correct,
we'll be hitting almost two times the speed of light. That is not
possible."

"I think we'll do it," said McBride. "After all, we're in a space warp,
and no one really knows whether the laws of the universe hold in a
space warp. Drake hit the Lens at about ten thousand miles per second,
was stopped in time to get to one of the fore lens stations, which must
have been terrific deceleration--unthinkably high--and it didn't even
muss her hair. We'll know in a bit when we are supposed to hit the
speed of light."

"Then for the love of Mike, what is our limiting velocity?"

"The same as any of the gravitic spectra. Gravitic phenomena propagates
at the speed of light raised to the power of 2.71828--That's our
limiting velocity."

"Want to make any bets?"

"I don't mind. My guess is as good as yours."

"Better," admitted Steve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Below, in the pilot room, Sandra Drake was having a state of nerves.
She was alone in the driver's seat of a ship destined to exceed the
speed of light, and she was scared. For some reason, the men who
professed to shy at danger were arguing the possibilities of running
above the speed of light while she, who had lived the life of an
adventuresome girl, a daredevil, was worrying. She listened through the
communicator at their argument and cursed under her breath.

They were going at it in a pedantic manner, hurling equations and
theorems and postulates at one another like lawyers with a case for
the supreme court, not men who were heading for God-Knows-What at a
headlong pace under an ever-increasing acceleration.

There were all sorts of arguments as to the aspect of the sky as the
speed of light was approached. And how it would look at a velocity
of more than light. This went on for some time, with Steve Hammond
holding out for blackout and John McBride holding for a sky that
crawled forward due to the angle-vectors created by the ship's passage
across the light rays, until the entire sky appeared before them--all
the stars in the sky would be in the hemisphere in front of them, no
constellation recognizable.

"But your supposition does not recognize the doppler effect," objected
Hammond. "Visible light will be out of the visible spectrum."

"True enough. But solar radiation extends from down low in the
electromagnetic scale to very very high in the extra-hard UV. Visible
spectra will be dopplered into the UV, all right, but the radio waves
will have an apparent frequency of light, and we shall see the stars by
that, I think."

"With no change in color?" asked Hammond skeptically.

"There will be a change in color, naturally. We'll observe them in
accordance with whatever long waves they emit; they will in no way
resemble the familiar stars we know."

"How's a poor devil going to navigate at any rate?" asked Larry. "With
everything out of place--or invisible--what's he going to use for
signposts?"

"In normal usage, the super drive will be fine. We've been using
autopilots for years and years, setting up the whole course from
take-off to the last half hour of landing. We can still do it. We'll be
flying blind, but so what? We fly pretty blind as it is; no one gives a
rap about the sky outside. Instrument flying is our best bet."

"Well," said Hammond, "we'll see it soon enough. The color of the stars
behind us are changing right now."

"They should. We're running at three quarters of light--and, Stevey
Boy, they're still visible!"

Silently they watched the sky. Dead below them, a tiny black circle
appeared and the stars that once occupied this circle were flowing
away from it radially. It expanded, and the region of flow spread
circularly, and the bowl of the sky moved like a fluid thing towards
the top of the ship until the stars at their nose were crowding
together. Stars appeared there, new stars caused by the crossing of
electromagnetic waves from the rear, and the sky took on an alien sight.

For a long time the stars seemed to tighten in their positions above
the ship, and then the warning bell rang and the ship swapped ends
easily and the bowl of the sky was below them.

Then it began to return to the fore observation point of the _Haywire
Queen_ as the velocity of the ship dropped. The crawl started, and
the black circle diminished until it was gone. The stars continued
to regain their familiar color as the _Haywire Queen_ approached the
normal velocities used by mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Five hours after their start, the _Haywire Queen_ slid clumsily to a
stop beside Station 1 and made a landing. She arced a bit, since the
charge-generating equipment did not have the refinements of the Lens
flitters for making the ship assume the charge of the destined station.
But the arc was not too bad, and within a minute after the _Haywire
Queen_ touched the landing deck, John McBride was knocking on the door
of Dr. Caldwell's office in the hospital.

Caldwell came out of the inner door to answer the summons, and he
looked up at McBride and went dead-white.

"Mac! It's you?"

"Naturally," smiled McBride. "How's Enid?"

"How did you get here?" demanded Doc.

"That's a long yarn, Doc, and it includes a whole engineering program,
exceeding the velocity of light, and using a space warp as a traveling
companion. How's Enid?"

"She was none too good, but we'll have her through now. Come on in!"

"First tell Tommy that the _Haywire Queen_ is on the landing deck and
that they're to have anything they need if we have to kill the lens to
give it to them!"

"I heard that, John," said Tommy, coming in the door. "It's done." He
turned on his heel and left immediately.

John approached the bedside. "Enid," he said softly.

Enid's eyes fluttered. A wave of pain passed across her face and she
tried to move. McBride looked at the doctor.

"Go ahead, John," said Doc.

"Enid. I'm here. It's John."

Enid opened her mouth, gasped once, and said in a very weak voice:
"John? Here?"

"Nowhere else."

"But you ... were on ... Pluto--?"

McBride thought that one over. How could he explain? He decided not
to, and said: "I've been coming back for a long time, Enid. I'm here
now--that's all that counts."

"Yes, John," said Enid.

"She'll be all right now," said Caldwell. "That's what she needed."

Another wave of pain crossed Enid's face, and a nurse came with a
filled hypo.

Caldwell drew McBride out. "Another half hour will see her through," he
told John. "You wait here and everything will be all right. I know that
now, thank God."

Caldwell left McBride to re-enter Enid's room.

Steve Hammond and Sandra Drake entered the office. "How is she?" asked
Hammond.

"Doc says she's going to be all right, now. I've seen her and Doc says
she's perking up already."

"Good!" said Steve. "Drake, that was a nice piece of navigating. You
hit Station 1 right on the nose."

Sandra felt a whole library of emotions, mixed together. She smiled a
sickly smile and said: "I should have. I've been here before, remember?"

Hammond ignored the statement because he thought it sounded too much
like bluster. "Drake," he said, "the _Haywire Queen_ is about ready to
hop for Terra. Do you feel up to running it in?"

"Steve," snapped Sandra Drake, "I'm not going to let any idiot male
handle the _Haywire Queen_, and don't you forget it! After all, I'm
the only pilot in the solar system that knows how to run her! I'll
personally strangle both you and whomever you think you're going to
get for that job, understand?"

Sandra turned and left.

"What in the name of the seven hells has got that dame?" asked McBride.

"There are a lot of ways to kill a cat besides choking it to death
with cream," said Hammond thoughtfully, "but the latter way is just as
effective and sometimes a lot easier. Our she-barracuda has just hit
the one thing that she can't fight."

"Huh?"

"Sure. We gave her credit for doing a good job. Willing, honest credit.
No matter how she may profess to despise our opinion, she can't yell
'Liar' at us because that would mean that she thought that the praise
meant nothing. She's got to agree with us, or deny that she did
anything worthy. And she's been living in a world of her own, trying to
prove that she is the stuff. So--get me?"

"Uh-huh, I suppose so. How're you set?"

"Pretty good. We've swiped all of your spare alphatrons and a couple
more gravitic generators, and we'll butter the job up a little so that
we won't worry about over-loading the alphatrons. That'll take us an
hour or so. How're you doing?"

"I dunno. Doc said wait here--and dammit, I'm running out of
fingernails, cigarettes, and patience."

"Well hang tight. I'll be back from time to time to see how you're
getting along--Hi, Doc? What's the good word?"

"It's good," sighed Dr. Caldwell.

"Honest?" yelled McBride. "Enid's O.K.?"

"Fine. From here on in it's a breeze. Oh, I forgot to tell you. She's
had her son."

"She's what?" yelled McBride.

"Son. John McBride Junior, I presume. He's an ugly, carrot-colored,
monkey-faced, repulsively wrinkled little monster, but Enid says he's
the image of the old man."

McBride looked at Caldwell, and then rushed out to Enid's room.

"Image of the old man, hey?" asked Hammond.

"He'll develop," said Dr. Caldwell. "Junior is a Latent Image!"


                               THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LATENT IMAGE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
