The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Gently Orbiting Blonde, by John
Victor Peterson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Gently Orbiting Blonde

Author: John Victor Peterson

Release Date: June 22, 2022 [eBook #68373]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GENTLY ORBITING
BLONDE ***





                      The Gently Orbiting Blonde

                        By JOHN VICTOR PETERSON

                         Illustrated by ENGLE

                       _Anti-gravity may be hard
                        to handle--but a woman
                       scorned is still harder!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                         Infinity, April 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Maybe Helene's right in saying that I shouldn't tell exactly how our
living room became the training station for Space Satellite One. If I
don't, though, I'm afraid she'll let it slip out as a deep dark secret
to one of her tri-dielectronic bridge friends and it'll be all over the
Project as quickly as a pile past critical mass. It certainly wouldn't
help my reputation at the labs, especially if in the retelling the
facts should become distorted about Gladys, the gently orbiting blonde.

Some of it was accidental, certainly, but didn't Wilhelm Roentgen get
brushed by the breeze of chance?

I must have been on the right track, anyhow!

I'll leave it to you....

It's true, I _do_ get absorbed in things. So it happened on the night I
was married. But I did, after all, carry Helene across the threshold.
Can I help it that, as I was fetching her a toast, I just happened to
glance up at the sun-chandelier in our cathedral-ceilinged living room
and got reminded of the Project and decided I just had to go down into
my lab in the basement and change one little bit of circuitry? When
you're working on something as elusive as anti-gravity, you've got to
seize upon every minute of inspiration.

I told her I'd be right back and dashed downstairs. I guess I should
have kissed her first. I forgot. I'm sorry now. In a way. If I had,
maybe--But, let's face it, I forgot.

You could ask old Ruocco, my psych prof. He always says I've
supernormal powers of concentration.

There I was in the basement. One thing led to another. I rearranged the
circuitry on the psionic machine and found then that changes in the
gyrorotors were indicated.

Something intruded vaguely on my mind but I ignored it, enmeshed as I
was in magnetostriction lines. This just might work!

It didn't. My concentration was disrupted. I glanced at my watch. _Oi_!
I thought, _Helene!_

And my subconscious told me with sickening certainty that the near
disturbance I had had, had been the slamming of a door--of the front
door by someone on the way out.

I went upstairs. Helene was gone, complete with pocketbook. Her valises
had been in the car and I saw from the living room window that she'd
taken that.

She'd gone home to Mom, I guessed. She'd have no trouble getting off
the reservation; she had a nonsensitive job on the Project. Not like
me; I couldn't get pried out of White Sands by less than Presidential
order.

It'd be hours before I could try visioing her. Mom's way up in
Connecticut, quite a hop even by jetliner.

I sat on the chitchat bench, felt sorry for myself for a second and
then got concentrating on the starchart on the ceiling above the
sun-chandelier and decided that if man was to start exploring upward
I'd better continue my exploring downstairs.

But I couldn't concentrate. I fiddled around rewiring the psionic
machine just to have something to do.

The front door banged again with the loveliest, most satisfying
solid bang--and I dropped my soldering iron on a printed circuit and
something went _whoosh_ which wasn't just me going up the stairs.
Simultaneously a feminine scream came to meet me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went up the stairs but when I got to the top I
didn't--couldn't--stop. I kept going up, making climbing motions and
touching nothing at all until my head ricocheted off the curving
ceiling and I bounced down upon my contour chair. I didn't stop there
but bounced right back up again, vaguely aware that the recoiling chair
was slowly following me.

During this time I was seeing considerably more stars than you'd see
from Palomar on a good clear night.

The stars began to blink out of focus, and me in. And then, in the
midst of marveling over the undeniable fact that I'd discovered--well,
what about Roentgen?--_discovered_ anti- or at least _null_-gravity, I
remembered (a) the door slamming and (b) the scream.

I bounced off the ceiling, cartwheeled a bit, glanced off a picture of
a Viking rocket on the wall which took off on a trajectory of its own,
and then spun in my orbit and got a look at the blonde.

Now, anyone under normal conditions would have taken a good look at the
blonde. I was, however, performing what is known in aeronautics as a
barrel-roll, and my viewing of the blonde was the sweeping scan of a
surveillance radar.

Not that I hadn't seen the blonde before. I knew her well. Her name is
Gladys. She's the most gorgeously put-together creature at the Sands.
Most of the boys would ride bareback on a Nike if she gave them the
smile she was giving me then.

Gladys was in a gentle orbit as nearly circular as that of Venus. Her
primary was the sun-chandelier.

I thought then of another Venus. Only Gladys has arms. Her arms were
bare. In fact, a lot of Gladys was bare and there's a lot of Gladys,
all nicely proportioned, of course. The sunsuit's designer had
indubitably been inspired by a Bikini.

I bounced off a sofa, which absorbed some of my inertia, and through
some frictional freak stopped my axial rotation. I went then into
an elliptical orbit grazing the chitchat bench at aphelion and the
chandelier at perihelion.

The thought of Helene crossed my mind in a peculiarly guilty manner,
and I was rather glad at that moment that Gladys and I weren't on a
collision orbit.

"Now that you've stopped pingponging," Gladys said, "you might tell
me how we're going to get out of this fix. And I don't mind behaving
like an electron but you might make like a positron and come a little
closer; it's getting cold in here! By the way, where's Helene?"

I don't know why, but I told her. And maybe I did put on an aggrieved
husband act a bit, but who could blame me?

"Oh, Bill, I'm sorry," she said throatily. "You're so attractive, so
fine. To think you've been snared by someone who doesn't appreciate
your worth, your handsomeness, your manly strength. Oh, why couldn't
you just have given poor little me a glance? After all, we've been
together in the Project Lab every day. I _know_ you, Bill, and I'm _so_
sorry!"

And she moved on, lovely, graceful in her gentle orbit, and my heart
swelled with recognition of her compassion.

I started to make a self-effacing remark, stammered, and finally
changed my mind and asked, "But how did you happen to come here?"

She sighed. "Business, I'm sorry to state. Jim O'Brien wants you at
the lab. Thinks he's on the track of anti-grav--and here you have it
already! Gee, Bill, it _is_ getting cold in here!"

I hadn't noticed.

Just then the thermostat did notice, and the air-conditioning unit cut
in. Warm air started to blow from the baseboard outlets.

"Bill--"

"Yeah," I answered, trajecting past the chitchat bench and wondering
if by stretching real hard I could reach it on the next trip round and
drag myself to it. Then, if it didn't come unplugged I could ground
(now _that_ was a silly thought!)--I could _stop_ myself and maybe work
out of the living room along the edge of the tacked-down carpet.

"Bill, if Helene doesn't come back, do you think, maybe--"

I thought, maybe.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hey, was I imagining things or was my orbit changing? And was Gladys
smiling more warmly?

Oh, oh! The air-vents were doing it, the air currents from them
pressing me into a more curving trajectory which would probably graze
Gladys' orbit.

I was passing the chitchat bench. I flailed out for it, missed, and my
movement seemed to twist my trajectory even more. I looked at Gladys
and she was smiling warmly, welcomingly. I thought of Helene and felt
like a louse. An airborne louse. Without wings, like a louse should
be. You need wings to fly. If I'd had them I think I'd have flown.
Elsewhere.

Sure, you can let your conscience be your guide but what can you do
when you're helplessly warped into a collision orbit with one of the
loveliest women in the world, a welcoming planet in a closed system of
your own peculiar manufacture?

The visio started buzzing then and I wondered agonizingly if it were
Helene. On the other hand, it might be Jim O'Brien wondering why Gladys
hadn't come back. With no answer, he might come over, but I doubted it.
Jim's a bachelor and somewhat of a hermit.

Ah, missed on this go-round, but it was close. Gladys' smile told me
she was paying no heed to the buzzing visio at all.

The sun-chandelier--I could reach it! I caught at one of its sunburst's
rays. It promptly snapped off, but the action had changed my orbit.

Changed it--and how! Now I was in precisely the same orbit as Gladys
and gaining! She smiled back over her nicely rounded shoulder. It
wasn't fair!

I hadn't heard a sound outside, what with the visio buzzing away like
mad, but the front door was suddenly opened and there was Helene
starting to come in, a big package in her arms.

"Stay out!" I cried. "Don't come in, Helene!"

I was a split second too late; her foot hit the null-grav area and she
was suddenly orbiting, her package tumbling off on a trajectory of its
own, her pocketbook a satellite beside her.

Helene was startled, certainly, but not beyond speech. "Bill Wright,"
she cried, "you're a beast! You bring me home on our wedding night and
leave me for your silly machine and without a single solitary drop
to drink in the servomech and I go out for something and come back
to find you flying after that blonde hussy!" She swept up around the
chandelier, her orbit grazing it at perihelion but apparently destined
to be far remote at aphelion.

"But, dear--" I started.

"Don't dear me!" she cried, and went out of my range of vision just as
I overtook Gladys and her outflung arms caught me painfully by the
neck.

Which is when Helene's orbit mercifully turned out to be a collision
orbit with Gladys'--and she took Gladys away from me like a super-Nike
taking out a stratojet-bomber. They bounced against the ceiling. Gladys
took the impact. Rearward. Fortunately Mother Nature had been kind.

Helene bounced away from Gladys. Strands of blonde hair went with her.

"Dark roots!" Helene cried triumphantly.

Gladys said a bad word.

I conjectured.

"Say," I said, but the girls were shouting. I yelled, "Hey!"

They quieted but kept glaring balefully at each other and circled like
a couple of female wrestlers waiting--but wholly unable--to pounce.

"We're in a pickle," I started.

"_You're_ in a pickle," Helene corrected me.

"Oh, stop it!" I said.

"I didn't start it," Helene said.

Logic!

"Now, look," I said, "we've got to get down. If one of us could only
manage to grasp something that's fastened--the carpet, a window, a
doorknob--"

I didn't finish; it was too painfully obvious that none of our orbits
took us that close to the finite boundaries of my null-grav living
room. Helene's, I noticed, was the closest. A germ of an idea came into
my mind as I observed that Helene's handbag was still in a tight orbit
around her.

"Honey," I said.

She raged at that and made futile fluttering motions as though she
thought she just might be able to fly.

Perhaps formality was indicated.

"Mrs. Wright," I tried.

Gladys laughed and the irate Mrs. Wright, sweeping close to Gladys'
orbit at perihelion, made a vicious swipe which neatly tore away a
considerable portion of the upper part of Gladys' sunsuit, which
portion went fluttering away on a bat-like trajectory of its own. I
forgot the portion; the point of departure was more absorbing.

Helene gasped and told me to concentrate on getting us down; but my
powers of concentration were rather difficult to influence since I was
in a fixed orbit and, like Mercury or old Luna, my face was turned
inward and Gladys' orbit was now considerably tighter than mine.

"Well, do something, will you!" Helene cried. "At least, stop leering!"

Now I'm a reasonable man even when befuddled by null-grav, so I tried
to forget about orbiting hemispheres and to attack the problem of
reaching terra firma.

I closed my eyes, but promptly became so unoriented that I almost
became ill; so I opened them again and concentrated on my primary, the
sun-chandelier.

The visio had stopped buzzing. I hoped that meant that Jim O'Brien--if
it had been Jim--had figured that something was amiss and was now
hurrying over in his Caddicopter. He could throw us a line and haul us
out. Then I threw that hope away. Jim's severely practical; and this
_was_ to have been my wedding night.

Oh, well....

       *       *       *       *       *

Could one of us somehow reach the sun-chandelier and short it, thereby
shorting the machine downstairs? Mentally reconstructing the house's
electrical circuitry, I concluded that my lab was on a separate circuit.

_Hey! I am confused_, I thought. Helene's handbag! I'd thought of it
before. Of course! Women carry all sorts of things.

"Helene," I said, "do you have a squeeze bottle in your bag? Perfume or
hair spray or deodorant, maybe?"

"Bill Wright, if you think for one minute that I'm going to--"

"Have you?" I cut in.

She spluttered. "Perfume," she finally said grudgingly. "Though with
that eau-de-whatever Gladys is wearing, I should think--"

"Oh, stop it! Now will you please get the perfume out!"

She did; then she went wandering off to aphelion in her orbit and
momentarily out of my line of sight. When she came back toward
perihelion with the chandelier, I said, "Now, look, wriggle around a
little axially if you can--"

That did it. Helene exploded into a verbal nova. "You lecherous beast!"
she cried. "It isn't enough for you to dally with this shameless blonde
hussy on our wedding night. Not enough for you to float along looking
like a blissful ogling ogre, making mental mockery of your wedding
vows. No, you--you BEM!--you have to ask your meek and retiring, your
quiet and unassuming, your defenseless and self-effacing wife to act
like a bumping and grinding burlesque queen!"

And my meek, retiring, quiet, unassuming, etc., wife went on
etcetera-ing ad practically infinitum.

When swiftly trajecting Helene's tirade paused for lack of words and/or
breath, I said meekly above the gently orbiting blonde's chuckles, "But
I was only trying to get us out of this mess. I wanted you to perform
a slight axial rotation so that you could aim your--er--posterior
at the cellar door when you next reach aphelion near it. Do you
understand?"

"No," she said, but did manage by some completely feminine and to me
quite incomprehensible maneuvers (girdle girding procedure, maybe?) to
twist ninety degrees axially.

"When I say 'go,' squeeze the spray bottle," I directed, "and keep
squeezing it hard and keep it pointing straight away from your
longitudinal axis."

"My _what_? Now, look, what do you think you'll accom--"

"Wait!" I cut her off. "For every action there's an equal and opposite
reaction, right? I hope you'll widen your orbit when the reaction sets
in."

She was nearing aphelion. "Go!" I cried.

She did squeeze the spray bottle, and kept squeezing it quickly and
strongly, but so far as I could judge her orbit wasn't effected one
whit. Something was accomplished, however, that made our situation more
desperate: those little droplets of potent perfume proceeded to bounce,
scatter, splatter and ricochet all over the place. The scent spread.
Overpoweringly.

"And _you_ talked about _my_ perfume!" Gladys cried and began to giggle
again.

My gaze wandered toward the lovely albeit space-happy blonde.

"Bill!" Helene cried as she swept across my line of sight. She looked
like an avenging angel, a very lovely one. She made me feel humble and
contrite; I went dutifully back to the problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed rather hopeless. Both Gladys and I were orbiting nearly
parallel to the floor in what I was calling the plane of the ecliptic.
My brief encounter with the chandelier had twisted me into the plane as
had Gladys' unfortunate but exhilarating encounter with my irate bride.

Helene's orbit was still tilted from the plane, like Pluto's, and was
curiously elliptical like a comet's. Currents created by the allegedly
draftless air-conditioning system must have caused and must be
maintaining the ellipse. Being a newcomer to our tight little system,
Helene also still had considerable orbital speed whereas air resistance
would soon bring Gladys and me to a midair stop, probably in inferior
opposition. I knew what Helene would think of that.

I decided we couldn't do anything individually or jointly unless an
outside agent were introduced or full advantage taken of something
already present.

We had cosmic debris, for sure: the flipflopping chaise longue which
was in a tight orbit near the peak of the cathedral ceiling; the
framed picture of the Viking rocket (could I ever use a little of
_its_ thrust now!) fluttering close to the flapping torn part-away of
the sunsuit down below the plane of the ecliptic; and the big package
Helene had brought. The last suddenly proved to be on a collision orbit
with Gladys, curving in then to bump against her derriere. Reaching
back swiftly she caught it like an errant salesman's hand. I waited
expectantly.

"Wonderful!" she commented. "Wonderful!" And pulled out a bottle of
Scotch. I watched in fascinated, gleeful anticipation as she unscrewed
the cap, and moved the bottle up toward celestial north to reach a
normal drinking position. Naturally the contents promptly departed;
then splashed against the arch of the ceiling and went into a thousand
odd orbits, of which many made moist contact with my own. The
perfume-Scotch combination--_yoicks!_

"Glad," I said.

"Oh, it's _Glad_ now!" Helene burst.

I ignored her.

"Glad, get the package in your hands like a basketball--"

"Yes, conceal your shame!" Helene cut in acidly.

"Will you stop it?" I cried. "Now, Glad, listen, aim it toward my
orbit. Lead me a little--there, that ought to do it. Now when I count
down to zero give it a shove. Ready? Three, two, one--_zero_!"

It was dead on!

I looked in the bag, hoping to find a newly charged carbonation unit
for the servomech bar. I didn't, but I found something else!

"Helene," I said, "I love you!"--and I drew forth the loveliest magnum
of champagne you'd ever hope to see.

"But, Bill," Helene cried, "that's to celebrate our wedding night!"

I appreciated the present tense but said nothing, working on the wire
which bound the cork.

"Bill, remember what happened to the Scotch," Gladys warned me.

I ignored them both, thinking furiously. It _had_ to be Helene! She
would sweep to the apogee of her cometlike orbit near the cellar door
again in seconds. I shook the magnum as violently as I could. Its cork
went whooshing off on a ricochet romance with the Scotch cap. The freed
and deeply disturbed champagne blasted off straight for the most remote
point in Helene's orbit--and Helene was there! On target!

I went whirling backward with the reacting magnum against my chest,
bounced against a wall, smacked against the chandelier, flipflopped
a few times and found myself orbiting directly below Gladys. I
re-oriented myself with some effort and found by twisting my head
sharply that I could see the results of the improvised jet blast:
Helene, drenched with champagne, stood in gravity on the cellar stairs.

"Dear," I ventured, "just go down and ease off on the rheostat; that'll
cancel this out gradually and let us down easily."

She made a spluttering noise and went downstairs.

I made a quick survey for a possible safe touchdown area just in case
Helene inadvertently cut the power too fast; chances were good that
we'd hit one of the several sofas.

Gladys and I were celestially north of the chitchat bench when Helene
completely killed the null-grav. The bench, with visio, suffered
complete collapse; it wasn't meant for sitting down on from twelve feet
up. Especially with a blonde dropping immediately into one's lap. Lucky
for me both were nicely padded.

"I'm sorry, Bill," Gladys said, _September Morn_-ing, and hurrying,
dishevelled and forlorn, out the front door. I heard her car start up
as Helene came up from the basement.

I ruefully surveyed the shattered visio amid the other debris.

"Null-grav," I said. "Real null-grav. Jim's got to know--but the
visio's ruined. I've got to go out and call him."

"Oh, no, you don't!" Helene burst. "Null-grav _and_ Jim O'Brien can
wait until tomorrow!"

She kissed me tenderly then.

"How right you are," I said, getting re-oriented fast.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now you must excuse me; I've got to degravitize the living room.
They're due here for training in a few minutes--the Satellite One
Cadets. I worked out a keyer that remotely controls the null-grav's
rheostat; it's calibrated to permit creating any sub-gravitational
effect from one G down to null-G. Those boys are really getting trained.

Someday I'll duplicate the null-grav over at the Project--Jim O'Brien
and I have nearly got the circuitry licked--and we'll have the living
room all to ourselves. Jim and his blushing bride--Gladys--come over
almost every evening after the Cadets are through. We play null-grav
polo, orbital chess and some other games we've adapted. Our favorite,
though, is "Pick Your Planet" where we take turns imitating the orbit
of one of Sol's planets, planetoids, moons or visiting comets, and
pantomiming other clues.

Funny, but most often Helene or Gladys chooses Venus. With them, poor
cold old Pluto's out.

Women are funny that way.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GENTLY ORBITING
BLONDE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
