The Project Gutenberg eBook of My sweetheart's the Man in the Moon,
by Milton Lesser

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: My sweetheart's the Man in the Moon

Author: Milton Lesser

Release Date: June 24, 2022 [eBook #68393]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY SWEETHEART'S THE MAN IN
THE MOON ***





                  My sweetheart's the Man in the Moon

                           By MILTON LESSER

                        Illustrated by STALLMAN

                 _Not everyone will think of the first
                   moon-flight as the first glorious
                   step on the road to space. There
                   will always, for instance, be the
                   fast-buck boys like Lubrano...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Infinity, December 1956.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Jeanne turned off the radio and went downstairs slowly, watching how
the gold-shot curtains on the landing window caught the sunlight in a
multitude of brilliant flecks. She shuddered slightly. Up _there_, the
sun would scorch and sear.

When she entered the living room, Aunt Anna looked up from her
magazine, and Pop puffed on his calabash pipe, occasionally grunting
with satisfaction. Mom looked at Jeanne hopefully, but soon turned away
in confusion. She could not tell whether Jeanne wanted her to laugh or
cry.

"Well," said Jeanne, instantly hating the flippant way she tried to
speak, "he got there." She never quite knew why, but whenever emotions
threatened to choke her up she would slip on the mask, the carefree
attitude, the what-do-I-care voice she was using now.

"All the way--_there_?" Aunt Anna fluttered her eyebrows, allowing
herself a rare display of emotion.

Mom smiled, laughed briefly and nervously. She touched Jeanne's cheek
tentatively with a trembling hand, hugged her daughter quickly and drew
back. "I didn't know," she said. "None of us knew. We were afraid to
listen. I mean, it's so far."

"Knew he'd make it," said Pop, tamping his pipe full with another load
of tobacco from the humidor. "Tom's got good stuff in him. Smokes a
pipe, you know."

"Not up there," said Jeanne practically. "It would waste oxygen."

"It says here in this magazine the moon is 240,000 miles away," Aunt
Anna told them.

"Did the announcer say how Tom felt?" Mom wanted to know.

"Just imagine how it will be," Aunt Anna said, "when we get Tom
back here and he speaks to the Women's League. We'll have to make
arrangements--"

"Can't," Pop reminded her. "Government hasn't said anything about when
Tom's coming back. Liable to keep him there a long time. Do the boy
good. See what he's really made of, I always say. Andrea, your roast is
burning."

Mom scurried off toward the kitchen. A moment after she disappeared,
the phone rang and Aunt Anna took the receiver off its cradle. "Hello?
Yes, this is the Peterson home. Yes, she is. In a moment. Jeanne, it's
for you."

"Hmmmm," Jeanne chortled. "Some fellow trying to make time because
Tom's too far away to protest." She hated herself for saying it, and
administered the mental kick in the pants which never helped. She was
missing Tom more acutely every minute. The distance was unthinkable,
the moon almost too remote to consider, lost up there in infinite void,
surrounded by parcels--parsecs?--of nothing.

Picking up the receiver, Jeanne turned her back to Aunt Anna, who
appeared quite eager to listen to at least half of the conversation.
"Hello? Yes, this is Jeanne Peterson. The _Times-Democrat_? I could
see you today, I suppose. Why, here at home. I'm on vacation. But
what--about Tom? Oh, I see. Oh, they told you down at White Sands.
Well, all right. 'Bye."

"It was a man," said Aunt Anna.

"Who said my roast was burning?" Mom asked them all indignantly as she
returned from the kitchen.

"Who was the young man, Jeanne?" Aunt Anna asked.

Jeanne grinned, brushed back a stray lock of her blonde hair. "Sorry to
disappoint an old gossip like you, but--"

"Tom _is_ a long way off!"

"That was just Mr. Lubrano, a reporter on the _Times-Democrat_. 'How
does it feel to be the fiancee of the first man to reach the moon,' he
said. Funny, I hadn't thought of it that way at all. How does it feel?
Did he expect me to turn cartwheels? (_But, I_ am _proud of Tom, so why
don't I admit it?_) He'll be down to interview me this afternoon."

"After dinner, I hope," said Mom.

Awkwardly, Aunt Anna lit a cigarette--something she did only on rare,
important occasions. "It never occurred to me," she said slowly, trying
to remove tobacco grains from her tongue as delicately as possible with
thumb and forefinger. "Not for a moment. But Jeanne, in her own right,
is also a celebrity. The Women's League has watched her grow up, I
know. But suddenly, all at once, Jeanne is different. Andrea, get May
King on the phone!"

"May--the president?" Mom wanted to know, somewhat awed.

"Of course, Andrea. A little imagination, that's what you need."

Mom got up doubtfully, approached the telephone as if it might jump up
and attack her.

"Forget it," Jeanne told them. _Use big words. Use words which would
have ridiculous double-entendres for them. Frighten them._ "I won't
prostitute my emotional relationship with Tom for all the Women's
Leagues in the county. Forget it."

"Jeanne!" said Aunt Anna.

"Jeanne," Mom echoed her, more than a little shocked. "What all this
has to do with--Jeanne! Oh...."

But Jeanne was on her way upstairs to put on something gay and bright
for the arrival of Mr. Lubrano. Now that she thought of it, she liked
the almost electric crackle in the reporter's voice over the phone.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Good afternoon, Miss Peterson. Honest, I feel almost like a cub. In
a few hours, you've become quite a figure." Mr. Lubrano was young,
good-looking in a dark, dangerous, eager Latin way. He took Jeanne's
proffered hand, held it and looked at her long enough to let her know
he appreciated what he saw, briefly enough to indicate everything would
be strictly business if she wanted it that way.

Jeanne had been firm with Aunt Anna and her folks. Their part in this
was to be strictly a vicarious one. She would answer their questions
later. As it turned out, Pop almost had to propel Aunt Anna from
the room, and this only because Jeanne had insisted beforehand. Mom
couldn't fathom the fuss or the secrecy, and contentedly did as she was
told.

"You're younger than I expected, Miss Peterson."

"Come now. Tom's only twenty-five. You know that."

"Well, then, prettier."

"Then we're even. After a reporter friend Pop once had, you could be
Tyrone Power."

"Lovely dress you're wearing." He fingered the taffeta at her shoulder,
let his hand rest more heavily than necessary. When she pulled away and
sat as primly as she could on a straight-backed chair he said the one
word, "Business?" He made it a question.

"Business."

"Just how long have you known the Man in the Moon?"

"The Man--really!"

"Oh, that's him. That's your Thomas Bentley. He's the Man in the Moon
now."

Jeanne suppressed an unfeminine snicker. "About nine years. High school
together, dates, going steady, engaged. The usual middle-sized town
sort of thing."

"Love him?"

"Of course. Really, Mr. Lubrano."

For the next thirty minutes, Dan Lubrano asked her the sort of
questions that might make an adequate Sunday-supplement feature.
Nothing startling, nothing very original--except for the fact that
Jeanne, as the fiancee of the first man to rocket across interplanetary
space and reach the moon, was an unusual subject. Did she plan on
marrying Tom upon his return? Naturally, but only the highest echelon
of government and military circles knew when that might be. Was she
afraid the utter desolation of space would somehow--change him? Lubrano
made the pause significant. Might make him more romantic if anything,
although Tom never tended toward stodginess. Could she be quoted as
saying she looked up at the moon every clear night and called softly,
silently, secretly to Tom across the unthinkable distances? Yes, if it
were absolutely necessary.

When they finished, Jeanne said: "Don't tell me that's all, Dan?"

"Officially, yes. Unofficially, I haven't started. Look, Miss
Peterson--Jeanne--mind if I'm perfectly frank?"

Jeanne said she didn't mind at all.

Lubrano grinned, displaying his piano-key teeth. "Jeanne, all my life
I've looked for something like you. Only it's something you almost
never find. Either you're lucky or you're not. Me, I'm lucky, I've
found the fiancee of the Man in the Moon. To make things even better,
you've got your share of good looks--and you're not dumb, either."

"I don't understand."

"Jeanne, we can make a million bucks together. Quick, with hardly any
work. Want to?"

"It sounds crazy, Dan. You're not making any sense."

"No? Then listen." He turned on the radio, waited for the tubes to warm
up, dialed at random for a station. "... at this hour, we know only
that the Man in the Moon has landed on Earth's far satellite, that he
has signalled the success of his mission with a phosphorous flare,
and that he has as yet established no radio contact, although that is
expected momentarily. It is anticipated that the government will make
an announcement shortly. This much is certain, however. In order to
consolidate our position on the moon, we will have to send up another
spaceman to join fearless Captain Bentley on our bleak satellite,
eventually an entire crew of technicians--"

"Is that all?" Jeanne demanded. "Of course Tom is news. What's the
connection?"

"News is right. The biggest since we exploded the A-bomb. Listen."
Lubrano dialed for another station. "... dream of all centuries,
all generations. A spaceship to the moon. The implications are so
tremendous that man hasn't even considered all of them. American
know-how, scientific ability and determination has once again brought
a new era to mankind. Tonight before you retire, Mr. and Mrs. America,
give a silent prayer of thanks to our Maker for giving us the Man in
the Moon. This is--"

Lubrano flicked the dial again. "... presented by Crunchy Kernels, the
cereal with the truly sprightly crackle. And here he is, ladies and
gentlemen, in a direct interview from White Sands, New Mexico. Dr. Amos
T. Kedder, assistant supervisor of electronics for the final stages of
the spaceship's construction--"

"See what I mean?" Lubrano asked triumphantly, turning off the radio.
"Assistant supervisor in charge of electronics. Well, a pat on the
backside for him. Nobody yesterday, the feature attraction on the
Crunchy Kernel Guest of Honor Show today. Startling, isn't it?"

"What's all this got to do with me?" Jeanne asked.

"Every place you turn," said Lubrano. "Can't avoid it. Honey, who wants
to? Don't get me wrong. You won't just be my meal ticket. I'll have to
do most of the work, but together, watch our smoke. A million bucks,
honey! That's the goal. Want to get on the gravy train?"

"Maybe," said Jeanne. "But I still don't--"

"Look," Lubrano sneered. "I'm a newspaperman, struggling along at
fifteen bucks a week over the Guild minimum. But I got ideas, honey.
Public relations, that's the field. Public relations. There's millions
in it.

"Get the right start and you got it made. We can't have Bentley here
on Earth--tough. But we got his gal-friend. A red-hot item, if handled
properly. Man! Commercial endorsements as a starter, then maybe a
lecture tour, theater appearances, even cheesecake pictures for the
magazines. Get it, honey?"

"Why, yes. I'm beginning to under--"

"Of course you get it! Jeanne Peterson reads _Cosmopolite_ to while
away her lonely hours. Jeanne smokes _Dromedaries_, relaxes in her
bathtub with _Luroscent_, dreams of her lover on the moon on a
_Softafoam_ pillow, writes him letters and saves them for his return by
using _Perma-blue_ ink, wears a _Furform_ coat to keep her warm while
gazing at the crescent moon on chill autumn nights. Get it, honey? Get
it?"

Jeanne laughed softly. "Talk about your prostitution," she said,
half-aloud.

"Huh? What say?" Effusive with enthusiasm, Lubrano hardly heard her.

"Nothing. Nothing. It's been interesting, Dan." She stood up, led him
to the door. "Let me think about it. I've got to think."

"Say, wait a minute." Almost, Lubrano seemed indignant. "You looked all
hepped up about it, honey--why the quick freeze? If you think you can
do this yourself without help from me, you've got another guess coming.
I've got the contacts, you've got the name we want to sell. You can't
do it alone. A fifty-fifty split, straight down the middle."

Mechanically, Jeanne's mind went to work. Also mechanically, she spoke.
"Fifty-fifty baloney. You get twenty-five per cent, Mr. Lubrano, and
not another penny. You must take me for a yokel."

"Forty."

"I said twenty-five."

"All right. All right. There's still enough in it for me. Twenty-five
per cent. Meet me tomorrow morning at my--"

"That's _if_ I decide the idea is worthwhile," Jeanne said, pushing him
across the door-sill and watching him retreat reluctantly down the walk
to the street.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Mom and the others asked Jeanne later, she was the picture
of co-operation. She told them everything about Mr. Lubrano and
his pleasant interview. She told them nothing about Dan and his
not-so-fantastic plans.

Jeanne excused herself after dinner, her mind seething with proposal
and counter-proposal, and went upstairs to her room, but found sleep
impossible. Was it fair to Tom, capitalizing on whatever feelings
they had for each other? Was it fair to herself? If Lubrano had his
way, a glorified Hollywood love would result. Jeanne and Tom would
be adopted by the nation as its favorite lovers. Their faces would
grace pop-bottles, sipping cola together in an infinite regress of
progressively smaller bottles. Their forms would loll on all the beach
billboards, proclaiming in the latest, brightest colors that the Man in
the Moon and his girl-friend insisted on _Sunburst_ bathing suits. And
Jeanne would be waiting with her _Chlorogate_ toothpaste smile for her
lover to return from the infinite distances.

When he returned, nothing would be left. Commercial love,
exploited love, hounded love, a cheap, impossible, publicized and
doomed-to-failure marriage, if Tom ever allowed it to go that far.

"Phooey on you, Jeanne Peterson!" Jeanne said aloud, and sat up in bed,
surprised at the loudness of her own voice. She was imagining things.
It wouldn't be as bad as all that. Exploitation for a few months--and
a small fortune, if not the great wealth that Dan promised. And the
physical comforts made possible by whatever she earned would, over a
period of time, smother Tom's anger.

Still, the one honest emotional experience which somehow had penetrated
deeper than the veneer she exposed to the world had been her
relationship with Tom. But she could make money, make herself happy,
make Tom happy--if not immediately on his return then eventually.
But....

Soon after the milkman pulled his truck to the curb down on the corner,
Jeanne fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Hold it! Hold it!" The agency director of photography, a small,
round man with a thin voice, waved the photographer off his camera
impatiently and scowled at Jeanne. "You're a nice girl, Miss Peterson.
That's a nice nightgown, filmy, but not so filmy it won't get by the
censors. You got a nice figure and the country will love you. So why
don't you be a nice model too?

"That ain't just a mattress you're on, Miss Peterson. How many times I
gotta tell you that's the mattress you're waiting for Tom on? 'I miss
Tom so, I'd never sleep, thinking of him so helpless and far away,
the first Man in the Moon. Except for my _Beautysleep_ mattress which
induces sleep with its special inner-spring construction.' I ain't no
copy-writer, Miss Peterson, but it will be something like that. So,
cuddle up on that mattress like it will have to do till Tom comes home
from the moon. Cuddle nice, Miss Peterson, cuddle nice."

It took Jeanne exactly fifty-five minutes longer before she could
cuddle nice. They then took the picture in a matter of seconds, and
Jeanne was allowed to change into her street clothes. Hurrying, she was
only fifteen minutes late for her luncheon engagement with Lubrano.

"Three months," Lubrano said, after they'd settled themselves over
cocktails. "Not bad, honey. Know how much we grossed, including the
_Beautysleep_ account?"

"Yes," Jeanne told him. "Twenty-eight thousand, three hundred and four
dollars."

"Not bad," said Lubrano. "It takes the right kind of press, naturally.
That's me, honey, the right kind of press."

"Yes," said Jeanne. "We're a good combination, Dan. You're right, it
can't miss."

"Funny, you never sound excited about it."

"Maybe that's the way I am. I don't excite easily. So what?"

"So nothing." Lubrano began cutting his pork tenderloin.

"What's next on the agenda?" Jeanne wanted to know. "Maybe I lasso the
moon with smoke rings blown from _Buccaneer_ cigarettes?"

"Maybe you do eventually. Not right now. Right now you have to hop a
plane for New Mexico and have a chat with the boyfriend."

"What?" Jeanne felt something flip-flop madly in the pit of her
stomach. "Dan! Oh, Dan!"

"That's right, honey. Through the courtesy of 'Hands Across the Ocean,'
sponsored by Cleopatra Complexion Soap. A radio broadcast across a
quarter of a million miles of space to re-unite you and Tommy boy. At
least, for three minutes."

"Oh, Dan, Dan--that's wonderful." Jeanne stood up, removed the napkin
from her lap. "If I hurry home and pack I can make a night plane and be
in New Mexico by--"

"Whoa. Relax, honey, there's no rush. The show is tomorrow night,
11 P.M. our time. I've booked your reservation for the morning."

"I'm too excited to eat, Dan. Really. But thanks for everything."
Jeanne bent down as Lubrano prepared to attack his tenderloin again.
She kissed his forehead playfully, turned to leave.

Someone snickered, "That's the moon girl, I think. I thought her
boyfriend was way up there. Another cheap publicity stunt."

"Careful," Dan frowned. "So you're happy. Don't go around ruining
everything."

Still smiling, Jeanne left.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sit down, Miss Peterson." The general waved Jeanne to a chair, half
rose as she seated herself. "Frankly, these publicity things always
make me nervous."

"_You're_ nervous! Look who's talking!" Jeanne waited while the general
lit a cigarette. "Only three minutes! I can hardly think what to say."

"Is that bothering you, Miss? Don't worry. They showed me a copy of the
script."

"Script?"

"Script, yes. For tonight's program. Your part is all there, word for
word."

"But I thought--"

"That it would be extemporaneous? I guess we're both new at this,
Miss Peterson. I would have thought the same thing. But not with an
audience of twenty million. That's what Mr. Pate said. Pate, he's the
director of the show."

"But--but they can't do that. I want to talk to Tom. I want to tell
him--things. I won't recite any prepared speech." How ridiculous could
the whole situation become? Jeanne thought. She'd made a farce of their
love these months. Now she wanted to forget that, make up for it at
least in part by speaking to Tom, by pouring her heart out to him (as
if she could even start to do that, in three minutes). If that fell
through too.

"You'd better send for Mr. Pate."

"You don't understand. Mr. Pate's in charge, not me."

"Then--then I won't speak at all. Let him tell their audience that."

"What? Why, Miss, you can't do that. They expect you on the show and--"

"Send for Mr. Pate." Suddenly, she was glad Lubrano hadn't come out
here with her. He naturally would have agreed with Mr. Pate.

The general picked up a phone on his desk, dialed. "Afternoon, Captain.
Have you seen Pate? What? Splendid. Of course I'll wait." He cupped a
well-manicured hand over the receiver. "They're looking for him,
Miss ... Eh? Hello? Mr. Pate? I'm sorry to bother you, but--yes,
important. I wish you could come to my office, whenever you ...
Splendid. Splendid." The general hung up. "Be right here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten minutes later, Pate arrived. He was young, florid of face, and
looked like he'd soon have a bad case of high blood pressure if he
didn't already have it. He waved a hand carelessly at the general. Too
carelessly. Like he was a recently discharged enlisted man who felt he
didn't have to bow and scrape any more.

"You're Jeanne. Recognize you anywhere. Like to tell your Tom he has
good taste."

"Fine," said Jeanne. "Tell him anything you want. I'm not speaking."

"Ha, ha. Good joke."

"It's no joke, Mr. Pate. I won't recite any prepared speech. I
absolutely refuse."

"Say that again. No, don't bother." Pate's brick-red face assumed the
color of good claret wine. "Not ordinary, this. You probably thought we
wouldn't reimburse you. Five thousand dollars all right?"

"Please, Mr. Pate. I came here to talk with Tom. I want to talk, not
recite. Tear up your speech and I'll do it for nothing."

"Can't."

"Don't, then. Good-bye."

"Wait! General, can't you do something?"

"She's not under my jurisdiction. I told her you know your business and
she was being--shall we say--something less than sensible."

"General! You never said anything like that. Don't you think I have a
right to speak to my fiance?"

"There's something to what you both say." Now the general sounded
like _he_ was talking from a prepared speech. _If it's a matter of
publicity, never hurt anyone's feelings. Straddle that fence. Walk that
tight-rope._

"Well, I'll be damned," said Pate. "Show's got to go on. Is that final,
Miss Peterson?"

"You can bet your bottom dollar on it, as the expression goes." Jeanne
almost felt like smiling, despite the situation.

"Don't say anything unprintable, then. Tear up your speech. We've got
to. See you in two hours." Muttering a brief word or two, Pate left,
not bothering to say good-bye to the general.

The general grinned professionally at Jeanne. "Any time I can be of
further assistance...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Is this seat taken?"

Jeanne looked up from her third cup of coffee, which she'd been
stirring nervously. She'd found a small restaurant outside the post's
main gate.

"Why, no. Sit down, won't you?" Jeanne smiled at the girl who
approached her.

"Th-thanks."

Kind of a plain type, Jeanne decided. Not pretty, though certainly not
homely. Nice hair, if you liked it corn-silk color and long. Some men
did, she supposed. "Cigarette?"

"I--I don't smoke, thank you. You--you're Jeanne Peterson. I recognized
you. My name is Mary."

"Hello, Mary."

"Miss Peterson, I don't know how to begin. But I've got to talk to
you. You're a stranger and--Miss Peterson, please. You've got to do
something...."

"How can I help you if I don't know what you're talking about?" Jeanne
almost felt like saying, _sister, I've got problems of my own_.

"It's Curt. Captain Curt Macomber. He's--maybe I shouldn't be telling
you this. You won't say anything. I mean--"

"For gosh sakes, what _do_ you mean?"

The girl sniffled.

"I'm sorry," said Jeanne. "Go ahead." Maybe she'd feel better herself
if she heard someone else's problems.

"Curt is going--up there. To the--the moon. I still can hardly believe
it. But they're sending him to join Captain Bentley. Tonight, at
midnight."

"That's right, they did say something about sending a man to help Tom
with whatever he's doing."

"Establishing a base, that's what. Curt told me. Curt said--he said he
was going. He got two weeks of fast training and that's it. He told me
the ship--the spaceship--worked automatically, anyway. Captain Bentley
will brief him when he reaches the moon. Your Captain, Miss Peterson.
But--but I'm so ashamed."

"Ashamed?" The whole thing sounded more and more like a soap opera to
Jeanne every minute.

"Curt--Curt and I, we got married. In secret. His folks didn't approve
and--well, that's not important. But I'm--I'm--well, I haven't told
Curt. I'm going to have a baby. I can't tell him now, not when he's
about to go further away than anyone. Miss Peterson, please don't tell
anyone." More sniffles. "Please."

"Forget about it. But I don't see where I can help you."

The girl spoke again, a quick-rushing torrent of words. "You can speak
to your captain and find out what it's like on the moon and discourage
Curt, or maybe even tell Curt the truth, that I'm going to have a baby
and then he'll understand he can't go. He doesn't have to go, he's a
volunteer. I mean, he can change his mind, if he wants to, if you can
make him...." The girl's voice trailed off plaintively.

Aunt Anna would be all for doing it, and then telling her friends
the full details for the next five years or so. Pop would smoke his
pipe and grunt something about it doing the boy good. Mom would say,
"Whatever makes you happy, dear," and retreat to her kitchen. You
could never predict Dan Lubrano. He might tell her to don a pair
of football shoulderpads, tackle Captain Macomber and sit on him
until the automatic spaceship blasted off for the moon. (Weller's
football equipment, of course. Nothing but the best, nothing but a
cash-on-the-line endorsement.)

"I'll do what I can," Jeanne said finally. "After the show, kid.
Meanwhile, all you can do is take it easy. But I don't promise
anything. Your Captain Macomber is a big boy now and probably, he'll
make his own decisions."

The thought of a naive, innocent girl like the one sitting beside her
falling into the publicity mill of another Dan Lubrano was almost
horrifying.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yessir, ladies and gentlemen. Every week at this time we all get
together and join hands across the ocean--in Cleopatra Facial Soap's
famous human interest program, the show that tugs at your heart-strings
as much as Cleopatra Facial Soap tugs at the grit and oil, removing
them from the pores of your skin--'Hands Across the Ocean.'

"Each week, Cleopatra Facial Soap extends a helping hand to men and
women everywhere. Submit your story to us, and if it is judged a
winner, you will speak with your loved one over-seas--wherever he is,
whatever he's doing--courtesy of Cleopatra."

_Soon, across the distances that defied imagination, she would hear his
voice--_

"Your master of ceremonies, Laird Larsen. Here he is, ladies and
gentlemen, the man whose voice all lovers know--Laird Larsen!"

"Hello, everybody, hello! Here we go again, in another Cleopatra
attempt to make young lovers happy." Larsen, an unprepossessing man
who spoke like Clem McCarthy, smiled mechanically. "This time, though,
'Hands Across the Ocean' makes an unprecedented leap. The Pacific Ocean
is a goldfish bowl compared to the empty space between us and the moon.
But Cleopatra Soap, in conjunction with the Amalgamated Broadcasting
Network and the United States Air Force, will attempt to reach the moon
tonight--by radio. Here with us is the lovely Jeanne Peterson, who...."

On and on he rambled. _There was so much she wanted to tell Tom--_

"... and on the moon, on the unthinkably remote moon, Captain Tom
Bentley, alone on a wild, utterly unexplored frontier. More alone than
any man has ever been before him. Lonely, perhaps a little terrified,
although we feel our Captain Tom is made of sterner stuff...."

_Our Captain Tom._ All at once, it was sickening.

"Are you ready, Amalgamated? Very well."--appropriate tremble of the
voice--"This is Cleopatra Soap, the planet Earth, calling Captain Tom
Bentley on the moon. Cleopatra Soap and all its millions of listeners,
calling the moon." Laird Larsen had picked up an unnecessarily complex
microphone and was talking into it. "Earth and Cleopatra calling Moon.
Do you hear me, Moon?"

_But what could she tell him?_ "Just imagine what it will be like when
Tom gets back here and speaks to the Women's League," said Aunt Anna.
That? "They're liable to keep Tom on the moon a long time," said Pop.
"Hm-hmm," said Jeanne, "some guy trying to make time because Tom's
too far away to protest." That? "I wouldn't prostitute my emotional
relationship with Tom for all the Women's Leagues in the country,"
Jeanne said. Very funny. Tell him that? Tell him about Dan Lubrano?

"Cleopatra calling the Moon. Come in, Moon. Do you hear me?" Laird
Larsen mopped his brow. "By now the radio waves have reached the moon
and returned, ladies and gentlemen. But still, no contact with Captain
Bentley."

_Why hadn't she agreed to use the prepared speech?_ If she talked to
Tom now, everything would be a lie. Nothing real. Nothing. And, she
told herself, this would be one more step toward cheapening whatever
they had. Twenty million people would gawk while they spoke. _Darling,
I love you, I love you! Hooray!_

"Hello, Captain Bentley."

"This is Bentley." Tom's voice, faint, from far, far away--but
unmistakably Tom's. It made Jeanne feel weak all over.

"Captain Bentley, I have a surprise for you. I have--"

Off in the wings, Mr. Pate stood, mopping his brow. The general was at
his side, beaming.

"Jeanne? Did you say Jeanne?" Tom's voice, weak, so distant.

"Of course, Captain, Courtesy of Cleopatra Soap, the facial soap
that...."

Jeanne wished he'd choke on all the bars of Cleopatra Soap that had
ever been manufactured.

"And here she is, ladies and gentlemen, America's number one
sweetheart, Jeanne Peterson, about to bridge the gap of interplanetary
space to chat with her lover."

Jeanne looked at the microphone and cringed. She walked forward, then
paused. She stared once at Mr. Pate, still mopping his brow in the
wings. Then she turned and fled, oblivious to the rising tide of voices
behind her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Almost midnight. If Tom hadn't spoken so often of the White Sands
Air Force base, she never would have come in here, never found the
little-used gate behind the barracks, where Captain Macomber would
enter to avoid publicity, never have mentioned the right few words to
the master sergeant at the gate-house. (_If ever you need anything,
darling, see Sergeant Reed. We were in Korea together._) Sergeant Reed
had been reluctant at first, but then had understood....

She crouched behind the gate-house in darkness now and listened.

"But I tell you I'm Macomber!" the captain cried. "You've got to let me
through. The ship's blasting off on automatic in a few minutes."

"Just show me your identification," Sergeant Reed said.

"I already--"

"Show it to me in the light where I can see it, Captain."

Jeanne ran down the runway that led past the little cement mounds of
the observation turrets toward the needle-like shape which loomed up in
the glare of a single floodlight. She had checked her wrist watch with
Sergeant Reed's. Four minutes to midnight. Reed would delay Captain
Macomber long enough. It was only a matter of minutes now. The sergeant
would get a blistering chewing out, but could claim he'd only been
doing what he thought was his duty.

_He told me the spaceship worked automatically_, the girl in the
restaurant had said.

The spaceship's airlock was not secured. There was no reason to secure
it. Jeanne found Macomber's pressure suit and with two handfuls of
thumbs buckled it on herself. Footsteps pounded along the runway as she
slammed the airlock door.

Seconds now. Less than seconds--

The last thing she told herself with a happy little smile, an instant
before she blasted off in the second lunar ship, was that the Man in
the Moon would get a real surprise in a little while.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY SWEETHEART'S THE MAN IN THE
MOON ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
