The Project Gutenberg eBook of Deny the Slake, by Richard Wilson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Deny the Slake

Author: Richard Wilson

Illustrator: GAUGHAN

Release Date: June 26, 2022 [eBook #68410]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DENY THE SLAKE ***





                            DENY THE SLAKE

                           By RICHARD WILSON

                        Illustrated by GAUGHAN

                          Those couplets held
                            (unless they lied)
                          The reason why
                            a world had died!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                         Infinity, April 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The skipper looked at what Ernest Hotaling had scribbled on the slip of
paper.

    _The color of my true love's cheek
    Will turn to gray within a week._

The skipper read it and exploded. "What kind of nonsense is this?"

"Of course it wouldn't rhyme in a literal translation," Ernest said
mildly. "But that's the sense of it."

"Doggerel!" the skipper exclaimed. "Is this the message of the ages? Is
this the secret of the lost civilization?"

"There are others, too," Ernest said. He was the psychologist-linguist
of the crew. "You've got to expect them to be obscure at first. They
didn't purposely leave any message for us."

Ernest sorted through his scraps of paper and picked one out:

    _They warn me once, they warn me twice.
    Alas! my heedn't turns me spice._

"There seems to be something there," Ernest said.

The skipper snorted.

"No, really," Ernest insisted. "An air of pessimism--even doom--runs
all through this stuff. Take this one, for instance:

    "_Music sings within my brain:
    I think I may go mad again._"

"Now that begins to make some sense," said Rosco, the communications
chief. "It ties in with what Doc Braddon found."

The skipper looked searchingly at his technicians, as if he suspected a
joke. But they were serious.

"All right," the skipper said. "It baffles me, but I'm just a simple
spacefaring man. _You're_ the experts. I'm going to my cabin and
communicate with the liquor chest. When you think you've got something
I can understand, let me know. 'I think I may go mad again.' Huh! I
think I may get drunk, myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

What the technicians of the research ship _Pringle_ were trying to
learn was why the people of Planetoid S743 had turned to dust.

They had thought at first they were coming to a living, if tiny, world.
There had been lights on the nightside and movement along what seemed
to be roads.

But when they landed and explored, they found only powder in the places
where there should have been people. There were heaps of fine-grained
gray powder in the streets, in the driving compartments of the small
cars--themselves perfectly preserved--and scattered all through the
larger vehicles that looked like buses.

There was powder in the homes. In one home they found a heap of the
gray stuff in front of a cookstove which was still warm, and another
heap on a chair and on the floor under the chair. It was as if a woman
and the man for whom she'd been preparing a meal had gone _poof_, in an
instant.

The crew member who'd been on watch and reported the lights said later
they could have been atmospherics. The skipper himself had seen the
movement along the roads; he maintained a dignified silence.

It had been a highly developed little world and the buildings were
incredibly old. The weather had beaten at them, rounding their edges
and softening their colors, but they were as sturdy as if they'd been
built last week.

All the cities on the little world were similar. And all were dead. The
_Pringle_ flew over a dozen of them, then returned to the big one near
the plain where the ship had come down originally.

The tallest building in each city was ornate out of all proportion to
the rest. The researchers reasoned that this was the palace, or seat of
government. Each of these buildings had a network of metal tubing at
its peak. Where there were great distances between cities, tall towers
rose from the plains or sat on tops of mountains, each with a similar
metal network at the apex.

The communications chief guessed that they were radio-video towers but
he was proved wrong. There were no radio or television sets anywhere,
or anything resembling them.

Still, it was obvious that they were a kind of communications device.

Doc Braddon got part of the answer from some of the gray dust he'd
performed an "autopsy" on.

The dust had been found in a neat mound at the bottom of a large metal
container on the second-story of a medium-sized dwelling. Doc theorized
that one of the people had been taking some sort of waterless bath in
the container when the dust death came. The remains were thus complete,
not scattered or intermingled as most of the others were.

Doc sorted the particles as best he could and found two types, one
definitely inorganic. He conferred with Rosco on the inorganic
residue. Rosco thought this might be the remains of a tiny pararadio
transceiver. Possibly each of the people had carried one around with
him, or built into him.

"We're only guessing that they were people," Doc said cautiously,
"though it would seem safe to assume it, since we've found dust
everywhere people could be expected to be. What we need is a whole
corpse."

While patrols were out looking for bodies Rosco tested his theory by
sending a radio signal from one of the towers and watching a feeble
reaction in the dust.

"If we can assume that they were people," Rosco said, "they apparently
communicated over distances by personalized radio. Maybe through a
mechanism built into the skull. Would that mean there wouldn't be any
written language, Ernest?"

Ernest Hotaling shrugged. "Not necessarily. I should think they'd have
kept records of some kind. They could have been written, or taped--or
chipped into stone, for that matter."

He asked the lieutenant to enlarge his search. "Bring me anything that
looks like a book, or parchment, or microfilm, or tape. If it's chipped
in stone," he added with a grin, "I'll come to it."

Meanwhile they ran off the film that had been grinding away
automatically ever since the planetoid came within photoradar range of
the ship. The film confirmed what the lookout reported--there had been
lights on the nightside.

Furthermore, one of the sensitized strips at the side of the film
showed that signals, which had been going out from the tower tops in a
steady stream, increased furiously as the _Pringle_ approached. Then,
as the ship came closer, they stopped altogether. At the same instant
the lights on the nightside of the planetoid went out. The film showed
that the road movement the skipper had seen stopped then, too.

Ernest tried to analyze the signals reproduced on the film. He had
small success. If they represented a language, it would take years
before he could even guess what they meant. The only thing he was sure
of was that the signals, just before they died, had become a thousand
times more powerful.

"Maybe that's what killed them," Rosco said.

"Possibly," Ernest said. "It begins to look as if the people were
deliberately killed, or committed suicide, all at once, when we hove
into sight. But why?"

"You tell me," Rosco said. "That sounds like your department."

But Ernest could tell him nothing until after the lieutenant came back
with a long slender cylinder enclosing a seemingly endless coil of fine
wire. The lieutenant also brought a companion cylinder, apparently a
means of playing back what was recorded on the coil.

Ernest experimented until he learned how to operate it, then shooed
everybody out of his cabin and went to work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ernest Hotaling had joined the crew of the research ship _Pringle_
on Ganymede as a replacement for Old Craddock, who'd decided on short
notice that thirty years of spacefaring were enough. It would be
another ten or twelve years before the _Pringle_ returned to Earth and
though Craddock was only seventy-eight his yearning to start a proper
bee farm became overwhelming.

The others were not unhappy about his departure. The swarm he'd kept
in his cabin was small but the bees were gregarious and were as likely
to be found in the recreation room as in their hive. So when Craddock
and the paraphernalia he'd collected over the decades had debarked,
the rest of the crew sighed in collective relief and the skipper went
looking for a replacement.

Ernest Hotaling, fresh out of Ganymede U., was the only man qualified,
on the record, for the job. He had the necessary languages and his
doctorate was in psychology, though his specialty was child therapy.

The skipper puzzled through the copy of Ernest's master's thesis. The
lad--he was twenty-three then--had devoted it to children's folklore.
The skipper, admittedly a simple man, wasn't sure it contributed
profitably to the world's knowledge to spend a year in the study and
explanation of _Winnie the Pooh_, or _Step on a crack/Break your
mother's back_, or _The Wizard of Oz_.

The skipper had gone to Space Prep at the age of fourteen and later to
the Academy itself and there were obviously wide areas of childhood
that had passed him by. He'd never heard of _Struwwelpeter_, for
instance, or _Ibbety bibbety gibbety goat_, and he wondered if a grown
man who immersed himself in this sort of thing was the one for the job.

What was worse was that Hotaling, according to the University yearbook,
was a poet.

But when the skipper interviewed Hotaling and found him to be a lean,
muscular young man who'd obviously had a haircut in the past week and
who laughed genuinely at one of the skipper's more purple stories, he
signed him on immediately.

The skipper had one last thought. "You don't keep bees, do you?"

"Not even in my bonnet," Ernest said.

"Then we'll get along. Just keep your nursery rhymes to yourself."

"Aye, aye, sir," said Ernest.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Look," Ernest told the skipper, "I've studied their literature, if
that's what it is, until I'm saturated with it. Maybe it doesn't
make sense to you but I've worked out a sort of pattern. It's an
alien culture, sure, and there are gaps in it, but what there is fits
together."

"All right," the skipper said. "I'm not questioning your findings. I
just want to know why it has to be in that ridiculous rhyme."

"Because they were a poetic people, that's why. And it doesn't _have_
to be in rhyme. I could give you the literal translation, but it was
rhymed originally and when I make it rhyme in English too you get a
more exact idea of the kind of people they were."

"I suppose so," the skipper said. "As long as we don't have to report
to the Flagship in the sonnet form I guess I can put up with it. I just
don't want to become the laughing stock of the fleet."

"It's no laughing matter," Ernest said. "It's pretty tragic, in
any number of ways. In the first place, as Rosco suspected, they
communicated by radio. But they had no privacy and couldn't hide
anything from anybody. They were always listened in on by the big boys
in the palace."

"How do you know?"

"By the coil I worked from. It's a listening-storing device. These
aren't official records I've transcribed; they're the everyday
expressions of everyday people. And every one of them had been taken
down and stored away, presumably so it could be used against the person
who expressed it, if it ever became necessary.

"But they couldn't always get through to the person they wanted to
reach, even though they got through to the coil. Here's a sad little
lover's lament, for instance:

    "_My plea to her is lost, as though
    The other three command the flow._"

"Like a busy signal?" asked the skipper.

"Very much like one," Ernest said, pleased by the skipper's
comprehension. "On the other hand, they always got the messages from
the palace. These took priority over all other traffic and were apt
to come at any time of the day or night. The people were just one big
captive audience."

"What about the dust? That seems to be a recurring theme in those
jingles of yours."

"It is." Ernest quoted:

    "_Dust is he and dust his brother;
    They all follow one another._"

"They're all dust now," the skipper said. "Did they have a revolution,
finally, that killed everybody off?"

"Both sides--the rulers and the ruled, simultaneously? Maybe so."
Ernest sorted through his pieces of paper. "There's this one, with its
inference of the death of royalty along with that of the common man:

    "_Comes the King! O hear him rustle;
    Falter, step, and wither, muscle._"

The skipper was beginning to be exasperated again.

"I'll be in my cabin," he said. "You seem to accomplish more when I
keep out of your way. But if you want to join me in a little whiskey to
keep the falters and withers at bay, come along."

       *       *       *       *       *

The lieutenant knocked at Ernest's door in the middle of the night.
"Mister Hotaling!" he called urgently.

Ernest fumbled into a pair of pants and opened the door.

"One of the men found this thing," the lieutenant said. "We were going
to keep it locked up till morning but it's driving me crazy. Figured
you'd better have a look at it."

The thing was a blue-green puppet of a creature wearing--or made of--a
kind of metallic sailcloth. It was about three feet tall, a caricature
of a human being. It hung limp by one arm from the lieutenant's grasp,
its head lolling on its shoulder.

"What is it?" Ernest asked sleepily, "a doll?"

"No; it's just playing dead now. It was doing a clog step in the cage
before." He gave the thing a shake. "The worst of it is, it hummed all
the time. And the humming seems to mean something."

"Bring it in here," Ernest said. He was fully awake now. "Put it in the
armchair and stick around in case I can't handle it."

The creature sat awkwardly where it was put. But then the eyes, which
a moment ago had seemed to be painted on the face, shifted and looked
squarely at Ernest. It hummed at him.

"I see what you mean," he told the lieutenant. "It seems to be trying
to communicate. It's the same language as on the coils." He stared at
it. "I wish it didn't remind me of Raggedy Andy. Where did you find it?"

"In the throneroom of the palace. One of the men on guard there grabbed
it as it came out of a panel in the wall. He grabbed it and it went
limp, like a doll."

"Listen," said Ernest.

    "_Don't you cry, boys; don't you quiver,
    Though all the sand is in your liver._"

"What's that?" the lieutenant said. "Do you feel all right, Mister
Hotaling?"

"Sure. That's what he said. Raggedy Andy here. I translated it--with a
little poetic license."

"What does it mean?"

"I don't think it's a direct message to us. More likely it's something
filed away inside his brain, or electronic storage chamber or whatever
he's got. The verse is in the pattern of the ones I translated the
other day. The question now is whether Andy has any original thoughts
in his head or whether he's just a walking record library."

"How can you tell?"

"By continuing to listen to him, I suppose. A parrot might fool you
into thinking it had intelligence of its own, if you didn't know
anything about parrots, but after a while you'd realize it was just a
mimic. Right, Andy?"

The puppet-like creature hummed again and Ernest listened, gesturing
the lieutenant to be quiet.

Finally Ernest said:

    "_Down the valley, down the glen
    Come the Mercials, ten by ten._"

"That makes as much sense as the one about the liver," the lieutenant
said.

"Takes it a bit further, I think. No, seriously. 'Mercials' is a set of
syllables I made up, as short for 'commercials'--or the sand in their
craw, the thumb in their soup--all the things they had to put up with
as the most captive of all audiences."

"That wasn't an original thought, then?"

"Probably not. Andy may be trying me out with a few simple couplets
before he throws a really hard one. I wonder if he knows he's got
through to me." He laughed as the lieutenant looked at him oddly. "I
don't mean _he_, personally. I know as well as you do he's some kind of
robot."

"I see. You mean, is somebody controlling him now, or is he just
reacting to a stimulus the way he was built to do?"

"Exactly." Ernest frowned at the doll-like creature. "I suppose the
scientific way would be to dissect him--it. Take it apart, I mean. I've
got to stop thinking of it as a him. We'd better get Doc Braddon in on
this."

He punched the 'com button to Doc's cabin. The sleepy voice that
answered became alert as Ernest explained. Doc arrived minutes later
with an instrument kit, looking eager.

"So this is your new toy," he said. The creature, which had been
slumped listlessly in the chair, seemed to look at Doc with distaste.
It hummed something. Doc looked inquiringly at Ernest. "Have you two
established communication?"

"It's a robot," Ernest said defensively. "The question is, could
we learn more by leaving it intact and pumping it for whatever
information is stored up inside it, or by taking it apart? For
instance, it just said:

    "_Uninterred beyond the hills
    Lie never weres and never wills._"

Doc became excited. "It really said that?"

"Well, not in so many words. It said--"

"I know, I know. Your poetic license hasn't expired. I mean, that _is_
the gist of it? That somewhere back of the hills there's a charnel
heap--a dump of corpses, of miscarriages--something of the sort?"

"You could put that interpretation on it," Ernest said. "I got the
impression of something abortive."

"That's the best lead yet," Doc said. "If we could find anything other
than dust piles, no matter how embryonic--Lieutenant, your boys must
have been looking in the wrong places. How soon can you get a detail
out over the hills?"

The lieutenant looked at his watch. "If I've got this screwy rotation
figured out, dawn's about half an hour off. That soon enough?"

"It'll have to do."

"What about Raggedy Andy here?" Ernest asked. "Do we keep him intact?"

"Don't touch a hair of his precious head," Doc said. "He's earned a
stay of dissection."

The creature, still quiet in the chair, its eyes vacant now, hummed
almost inaudibly. Ernest bent to listen.

"Well?" Doc said.

"Strictly a non-sequitur," Ernest told him:

    "_Here we go, lass, through the heather;
    Naught to daunt us save the tether._"

"It makes me sad," Doc said. He yawned. "Maybe it's just the hour."

       *       *       *       *       *

Cook had accomplished his usual legerdemain with the space rations but
the breakfast table was less appreciative than usual.

"The detail's been gone a long time," Doc Braddon said, toying with an
omelet. "Do you think it's a wild goose chase?"

"Reminds me of a time off Venus," the skipper said. "Before any of you
were born, probably...."

His juniors listened politely until the familiar narrative was
interrupted by the 'com on the bulkhead. They recognized the voice of
Sergeant Maraffi, the non-com in charge of the crew in the scout craft.

"We found something. Looks like bodies. Well preserved but incomplete.
Humanoid."

"Bring 'em back," the skipper said. "As many as you've got room for in
the sling." He added as an afterthought: "Do they smell?"

"Who knows?" Maraffi said. "I sure don't aim to take off my helmet to
find out. They're not decomposed, though."

The skipper grumbled to Doc: "I thought you checked the atmosphere."

"There isn't any," Doc said, annoyed. "Didn't you read my report?"

"All right," the skipper said, not looking at him. "I can't do
everything. I naturally assumed these people breathed."

"If they did, it wasn't air," Doc said.

"Bring back all you can, Maraffi," the skipper said. "But leave them
outside the ship. Everybody on the detail takes double decontamination.
And we'll put you down for hazard pay."

"Aye, aye, sir. We're on our way."

       *       *       *       *       *

"They're androids," Doc said. He'd gone out in a protective suit to the
grisly pile. "These must be the false starts."

The other technicians watched him on a closed-circuit hook-up from
inside the ship.

"Are they like us?" Ernest asked. "They look it from here--what there
is of them."

"Damn near," Doc said. "Smaller and darker, though. Rosco, you were
right about the communication. There's a tiny transceiver built into
their skulls. Those that have heads, that is."

"If that's the case," Rosco said, "then why weren't these--stillbirths,
whatever you want to call them--turned to dust like the others?"

"Because they'd never been activated," Doc said. "You can't blow a
fuse if it isn't screwed in. Skipper, I've seen about all my stomach
can stand for now. I suppose I'm a hell of a queasy sawbones, but
these--things--are too much like human beings for me to take much more
of them at the moment."

"Come on back," the skipper said. "I don't feel too sturdy myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ernest Hotaling was writing verse in his cabin when the lieutenant
intercommed him. He had just written, in free translation:

    _A girl is scarcely long for the road
    If passion'd arms make her corrode._

Ernest wasn't entirely satisfied with the rhyme, though he felt he'd
captured the sense of it. The lieutenant's call interrupted his
polishing. He touched the 'com and said: "Hotaling."

"Patrol's back, Mister Hotaling. You'll want to see what they found."

"Another heap of false starts? No, thanks."

"Not this time. They found some people. Two live people."

"Alive! Be right there."

He raced down, then fretted as he waited for Doc to fumigate the people
as they came through the airlock. Ernest saw them dimly through the
thick glass. They were quite human-looking. But how had they survived
whatever had turned thousands of their fellows to dust? Or were
these--a man and a woman, elderly and fragile-looking--the rulers who
had dusted the others?

"How much longer, Doc?" he asked.

Doc grinned. "In about two quatrains and a jingle, Ernest."

       *       *       *       *       *

They brought the couple to the main lounge and set them down at a long
table. The skipper took a seat at the far end. Apparently he planned to
listen but not take part in the questioning. That would be up to Ernest
Hotaling, if he could establish communication.

He'd mastered the language to the extent that he'd been able to
transcribe the record-coils and understand the robot, but whether he
could speak it intelligibly enough so that these living--he almost
thought "breathing"--people would understand him was a question.

Doc Braddon took a seat next to the couple. Rosco was on the other side
of them and Ernest opposite them, across the table.

Up close, it was obvious that they were androids. But they had been
remarkably made. They had none of the jerkiness of movement or
blankness of expression that had characterized Earth's attempts along
the same lines.

Ernest explained his doubts about his ability to make himself
understood and asked his shipmates to be patient with him. He smiled at
the couple and said to them in English: "Welcome to our ship." Then he
repeated it in their humming language.

They returned his smile and the old woman said something to the man.
Rosco looked inquiringly at Ernest, who shook his head.

Ernest made a face. "I forgot to put it in verse. I'll try again."

This time the response was immediate. Both man and woman spoke at once.
Then the woman smiled and nodded to the man to talk for both of them.

It was just a curious sing-song humming for the rest of them, but
Ernest listened with rapt attention and apparent comprehension, though
not without strain.

Finally the man stopped.

"What did he say?" Rosco demanded.

"Let me get the rest of it first," Ernest said. He spoke to the man
briefly. His expression became grave as he listened to the reply.

"Well, come _on_!" Doc said impatiently. "Give us a translation."

"All right," Ernest said. He looked troubled. "These two are the
only ones left of their race. The rest are dead--de-activated. The
others--the other race--left the planetoid some time ago."

Ernest spoke again to the man. Listening to his reply, he found
it difficult to think of him as non-human. There was a sadness, a
fatalism, in his eyes, yet a dignity that came only with humanity. Only
a hairline separated these two from mankind.

The impatience of the others made Ernest interrupt, so he could give
them a resumé.

"As I said, they're the last. They survived only because they'd made
a pilgrimage to a kind of underground shrine. The signals that killed
the others didn't reach them through the layers of rock. Apparently the
shrine had something to do with a planned revolt against the electronic
law that governed them.

"It was an insidious law," Ernest went on, "with built-in enforcement.
Any infraction could be punished instantly from central control in
the palace. The infraction would trigger a shock wave, tuned to the
individual frequency of the offender. The intensity of the wave was
geared to the seriousness of the offense. Treason meant death from the
strongest wave of all--the one that turned them to dust."

"Absolute rule," Doc said. "Pretty hopeless."

"Yes, in one way. But paradoxically they had an infinite amount of
freedom of speech. You see that in their verses. No one was punished
for what he said--only for what he did. I suppose it had to be that
way, otherwise there'd have been wholesale slaughter."

"Which there was, at the end," Doc pointed out. "Who do you think
exercised the control that killed all the others?"

"We did," Ernest said. "We killed them."

       *       *       *       *       *

"We killed them?" Doc said. "You're crazy!"

"You'd better explain yourself, Hotaling," the skipper said. "Stop
talking in riddles."

"Aye, aye, sir. When I say we killed them, I don't mean directly or
deliberately. And of course I don't mean killed, since they were all
androids. But we de-activated them by triggering some mechanism when
our ship came to the planetoid their masters had left."

"Hold on," the skipper said. "Now you're going too fast. Since they
were androids, and were created, the important thing is to find out
where these creators went--and whether it was last month or ten
thousand years ago."

Ernest spoke to the couple.

"It was a long time before we came," he translated. "They don't know
how long--their feeling of time is vague. They kept no records of their
own and because there were no children they have no conception of
generations. They were created adults, in various stages of maturity.
As for who the others were--they were the Masters, with a capital M;
gods, almost, in their view, with absolute power over them."

"Where did they go?" the skipper asked. "And why? Let's try to get more
facts and less philosophy."

"They went looking for a better world, where conditions for life
would be more favorable. Whether that means for the Masters or for
their creations isn't clear. Nobody consulted them. They'd been
given experimental life, only it was more a loan than a gift, to be
foreclosed if they displeased the Masters or in any way threatened
their experiment.

"The Masters were like themselves in appearance. Whether they were air
breathers isn't clear because these two have no conception of what
breathing is. The Masters did wear elaborate costumes but whether these
were breathing suits or merely the trappings of their superiority is a
question.

"I asked if the Masters were trying to create a new set of bodies
for themselves, possibly because their own were breaking down or
were diseased. The answer to that, like the answer to so many other
questions, is that they simply don't know."

There was a commotion at the doorway. The soldier on guard there made
a futile grab at something. The something was the puppet-like creature
Ernest had named Andy, which evaded him and ran into the room. It
jumped lightly to the table, faced the old couple and pointed both its
arms at them.

Their expressions, as they regarded the puppet, were of sorrowful
resignation. The man clasped the woman's hand.

The puppet spoke, in a brief piercing hum. There was an instant of
quiet, then the dullest of popping sounds. The couple, who one second
had seemed as alive as any of the Earthmen, the next second were little
mounds of gray powder on the chairs and under the chairs.

The lieutenant burst in, followed by the sergeant. "The Andy doll got
out of the cage!" he cried. "Did it come in here?"

"Did it come in here?" the skipper mimicked. "Get out, lieutenant, and
take your comic-opera soldiers with you." To the technicians at the
table he yelled: "Grab that obscene thing!"

The doll, grabbed from several directions, was torn apart, spilling out
a reddish-brown spongelike substance.

Something else came out, too: a perforated disk the size of a fist.
Rosco retrieved it as it rolled along the table, then quickly dropped
it in an ash tray.

"The damn thing's hot," he said.

Doc Braddon, still looking stunned, asked Ernest: "What did the doll
say to them before it destroyed them?"

"It was a sort of law-enforcing robot. They told me about it. A kind
of custodian the Masters left behind to keep things in line." Ernest
stared dully at the empty chairs.

"It said:

    "_You hid, and I
    Now bid you die!_"

Rosco toyed with the ash tray in which he'd put the disk. "There's
a clue to the Masters right in this gadget," he said. "Maybe it's
simply a servo-mechanism that was set once and has been functioning
automatically ever since. But on the other hand it may still be linked
directly to the Masters."

"Good point," the skipper said. "Give it a run-through for what it's
worth. If it does give us a line on where they got to, I'll ask the
Flagship for permission to track them down."

Doc Braddon said to Ernest: "You said the Masters were godlike. You're
not implying anything supernatural?"

"No. That was the androids' view, not mine. As a race of almost-people
created in a laboratory they naturally held their creators in a certain
awe. They hoped for liberation, and even tried to do something about
it; but they knew it was futile. The Masters built them so they'd turn
to dust if they misbehaved and when they left they fixed it so the
vibrations of any spaceship other than their own would do the same
thing--presumably so their creations wouldn't fall into other hands.
The sad thing is that the almost-people knew it. One of their verses
went:

    "_If comes the ship to make us free,
    It killeth you, it killeth me._"

"Do you mean we could have saved them if we'd come in with engines
silent?" the skipper asked.

"I don't know," Ernest said. "They certainly didn't think much of their
potential. There's a fatalism, a sense of thwarted destiny running all
through their literature. Their hope died on the vine, so to speak. If
you can stand one more of their verses, this one might sum up their
philosophy:

    "_This they give to us they make:
    They give us thirst, deny the slake._"

       *       *       *       *       *

The skipper was silent for a time, staring down at the little mounds of
gray dust.

Then he said to his technicians:

"You've done a good job, all of you. We'll send a coordinated report
to the Flagship tomorrow and stand by for orders. In the meantime, if
there's anyone here with an honest physical thirst, I'd be glad to have
him join me in slaking it in my cabin. No offense implied, Ernest."

"None taken, sir."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DENY THE SLAKE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
