The Project Gutenberg eBook of Victorious failure, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Victorious failure

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: June 30, 2022 [eBook #68432]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK VICTORIOUS FAILURE ***





                          VICTORIOUS FAILURE

                            By BRYCE WALTON

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Thrilling Wonder Stories, April 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


With good reason, Professor H. Klauson hesitated; his wife's arms were
holding him with a strangely insistent urgency and fear. He tried to
disengage himself, but not with much enthusiasm. Although he had not
admitted it to anyone but the Presidium's psycho-medic staff, he was
afraid, too. Desperately and helplessly afraid.

"Howard, please." Her pale blue eyes were wide, staring into his with
that intimacy only someone loved completely and without compromise
ever sees. "Don't go back to the Laboratories, Howard. Don't ever go
back again."

He smiled, unsuccessfully. He had never been able to hide anything from
Lin.

"But, dear, this is ridiculous. We're scientists! We're not frightened
by vague, intangible fears."

Her hands tightened on his shoulders. "We're scientists; so let us
admit the obvious. Something doesn't want you to ever complete your
research, Howard. We've worked together for ten years, and now you're
right on the verge of discovering the secret of life itself. And it
means more to humanity than anything else in the history of mankind.
But I'm afraid, Howard, and so are you. Whatever is against us stopped
you before. Your mind almost broke. It will try again, and this time
your mind may not recover."

He managed to push her from him, and immediately he felt lonelier,
isolated. His faint laugh sounded foolishly insincere.

"Lin, for the love of science! You sound like a mystic. Any mind is
liable to become unintegrated. You talk about invisible, intangible
forces. These things can only be in men's minds, dear. No mentality is
immune to disorientation."

She sobbed, her head swung back and forth hopelessly. A cloud of lovely
hair glinted liquidly in the shifting light from the harmonics glowing
from the transparent walls of their apartment. He couldn't leave her in
this state.

"Lin, darling, listen to me. I can't abandon my life's work.
Particularly something so profoundly important to humanity. One more
projection, and my 'closed system' principle will be concluded. After
that, think of it, Lin! This is really the one thing mankind has been
seeking. All his other activities are only bypaths. With eternal life
possible, mankind will have a real reason for struggling onward. Lin--"

"No, Howard," she was saying, brokenly. "There isn't an argument.
To me, your mind is more important. Why did your mind black out
just before you could finish your last experiment? Why, the whole
magnificent psycho-medical staff at the Presidium couldn't find a
reason. All the charts show you to be amazingly normal. There is
something bigger than our science, Howard. It doesn't intend for you to
ever finish your research."

"A woman's intuition?" he said sardonically.

"Not a woman's," she corrected. "Ours. Because you feel it the same as
I do."

       *       *       *       *       *

A sick, vague fear came over him as he stood there nervously,
remembering the gleaming, arched height of the biochemistry wards at
World Science Presidium. That singularly awful instant just before
he could finish his last experiment, when all his mental faculties
had crumbled. The microfilm protector had just commenced whirring.
Then that final spiraling downward into desperate gray fear and
unconsciousness.

There had to be a logical explanation so that whatever blockage stood
between him and the conclusion of his research could be torn down. The
secret of the single cell had long been his. Whatever that three-dim
microphoto film revealed, he and only he could turn the key to open
the ultimate secret door into victorious eternity for all mankind.
Now he blinked burning eyes. Lin was, of course, right. He felt it,
too. A hidden, omnipresent kind of force that would prevent him from
completing his research. But such a thought was adult infantilism, at
best. A hidden force! In his world there had to be logical sequence of
cause and effect. But even the psycho-medic staff hadn't been able to
find one.

"Howard," she was saying, lips quivering. "Remember our Moon House?"

Klauson bristled, froze. "I remember. The World gave us a magnificent
marble house on the Moon overlooking Schroeter's Canyon--a return favor
for my many gifts to mankind. What a juvenile farce. Imagine me sitting
up there on the Moon, with you--two futile little escapists, haunted
by our own uselessness, and our fears. No, Lin. I've my particular
destiny to fulfill. It isn't hiding away on the Moon. I'll never
accept retirement on the Moon, or any place else. Either now, or after
my research on the life force. I'd rather die than stop working in
science."

He started for the exit panel. Her voice cut deeply, slowed him, turned
him.

"You're going to the Laboratories again then," she asked faintly, "in
spite of what happened before?"

He nodded, but when he tried to say yes, his throat was dry and sticky.

"Good-by, Howard," she said.

She was crying when he left. It made him feel terribly lost and guilty
to leave her crying. But he had to. What made it so bad was that Lin
had never cried before; she was so strong, emotionally. Without any
real cause, this made him more nervous and irritable. But he was one
of the world's greatest scientists. Everything must have a cause,
somewhere. Sometime.

His gyrocar dropped down on the spacious roof-landing of the
Biochemistry Building at the World Science Presidium. It was beginning
to rain--solid, heavy, sharp-driving drops that spattered on the dull,
plastic mesh as he walked hurriedly across it to the ingress.

"Hello, Professor Klauson. This is a surprise. I didn't know you would
be coming back so soon."

Klauson started violently, clutched at his heart. A sudden, shooting
pain was there. Yet the staff had found nothing wrong with his mental
or physical integration. They had checked and rechecked.

"Oh--it's you--Larry!" He paused, relieved. "You--you startled me,
Larry. I didn't see anyone on the landing."

"I just came over to do a little work on my own," Larry explained.

He was a young, enthusiastic, highly capable student biochemist, with
a shock of unruly black hair. He had graduated from World Tech seven
years ago, and had been Klauson's assistant for five, working with him
faithfully, sometimes during those grueling sixty-four hour stretches.
He had been the only one with Klauson when he had lost consciousness.

"Didn't expect you back so soon, Professor," said Larry, talking
casually as their elevator dropped them down below the sub-floor
level into the spacious, almost vaulted silence of Klauson's private
laboratories. "Say, Professor, you intend to try to finish up again
tonight?"

Klauson stiffened. He was here, he felt capable enough. It was only a
matter of a few hours. Why not? Even as a therapeutic measure.

"I believe I will, Larry. I wasn't intending to, but now that you're
here, too, I might as well."

Larry said nothing. He stood in the soft, yet full brilliance of the
invisible fluoresce, his black, almost blue hair hanging over his eyes.
He smiled. Klauson started, he had never quite responded this way to
Larry's expression before. It seemed--peculiar, rather strange. He
discarded that chain of thought and looked about his laboratory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing had changed. Not that Klauson had expected things to be
different. The microphoto film cabinets stood tier upon tier, a long
stretch of recorded effort, a complete step-by-step, intricate process
of creating life from that awesome moment when he had known the
successful preparation of the first simple colloid and had started on
his first organic synthesis.

Through the actual combination of the first molecules and the organic
colloid and then the first tiny speck of synthesized protoplasm.
The frenzied day and night battle against time. Time, that was the
predominant factor in nature that did the trick. But he had compressed
millions of years into twenty-five. From simple, organic compound
through the simple colloid, the protein, the primitive protoplasm, the
simplest unicellular organism, the flagellate and--then the great jump
into the structure of the gene, the ferreting-out of that intricate,
vital combination that gave man life and maintained it. He had
conquered--almost.

The high, arched ceiling in the lab with its glowing columns and
its streamlined equipment had been provided him by the entire
earth--provided him by man's cooperative faith in himself. Men who
would find so much greater an impetus to fight ahead if they only knew
that whatever other success they might have, their ultimate end was
inevitably life, instead of death.

But he would affirm a greater investment of their faith than their
wildest dreams had ever granted him. No other man, or combination of
men, in the world could synthesize all the knowledge in those cabinets
and emerge with the final answer that he alone could evolve. No one but
himself. Larry Verrill might possibly develop some capacity to work
on the chain. But unlikely. High specialization had made it Klauson's
responsibility alone.

Enthusiasm, eagerness was returning; the fear was gone.

"It's so simple, really, now that it's practically over," he said as
he unzipped his aerogel cloak, and stepped toward the microphoto film
projector. He was talking mostly to himself, a habit of his, only
partly to Verrill.

"Yes," said Larry softly. "I suppose you might call it simple."

"Carrel saw to it that cells with which he experimented had a chance to
achieve immortality. Under controlled conditions, the growth proceeds
forever, logically. The body, a collection of cells, is a 'closed
system.' Like a gyrocar, that's what we called it, didn't we, Larry? No
closed system can endure unless it can inspect itself, oil itself, and
keep itself in repair. A gyrocar can't do that, but the body can and
does, though imperfectly."

Klauson warmed to his subject, and his voice assumed a fresh vigor.

"We've conquered that imperfection! Yet I can hardly believe it myself.
People can go on living without that final terrible, unconscious
fear of death that must defeat them. One more projection, Larry. One
remaining link for correlation. The answer is right here in this
projector. An actual three-dimensional record of the very first spark
in the heart of the cell itself, the primary bursting of a carbon atom
commingling with a single cell, creating life. It's the first and the
final record, Larry."

Larry nodded, but his lips were twisted in a rather sad, cynical smile,
it seemed to Klauson.

"So simple, isn't it, Professor?"

"Yes, it really is," asserted Klauson, his enthusiasm blinding him
to the peculiar reaction of Larry Verrill. "Whatever is revealed in
this three-dim projection will contain the final step for the infinite
prolongation of human life. When I synthesize it with Compton's H-9
film, we'll have it. Incredible, isn't it?"

"You may not realize just how incredible. How could you?" said Verrill.
"Nor I either, for that matter."

Klauson hesitated, his hand frozen above the button that would throw
the projector into life. Then, shrugging, his hand started to move
down. But it didn't.

For then, unbelievably, terrifyingly, it happened a second time.
Professor H. Klauson felt a blackness encompassing the mighty, vaulted
laboratory. It closed in tightly, smothering, icy. It wrapped his
entire swirling mind in darkness....

A little round man smiled broadly at him from a stool close to his bed
in the psycho-ward.

"Remember me, Professor?" His face beamed with self-possession.

"You're the clinic psychologist who handled the other electroencephal
checkup," said Klauson quickly. "Or are you?"

"Good recall," commented the psychologist. "Name's Dunnel. I've
rechecked your whole file since your--ah--second disorientation. Weak
alphas of course; but that's necessary in your type. No disrhythmia.
Tempo's exceptionally well balanced. Look, Professor Klauson, there
is still no logical reason for your being here. But meanwhile, these
charts don't fib. But I'm not so smug as to think we know so much about
the old cortex. Still, logically, we can't find a reason."

"But there must be a--"

"Oh, we'll find out, Professor. How do you feel now? The harmonics
working all right?"

"Not quite. Dunnel, both times I have been, well, terribly afraid
_before the attacks_. Some kind of intuition. My wife noticed it, too."

"You're beginning to build delusions and rationalizations. We must
guard against that. You're bound to put undue emphasis on it, make it
far more complex and important than it really is, because it happened
at such critical moments. You deal in absolutes, Professor. Cause must
equal effect."

"But it wasn't coincidence either time," insisted Klauson. "Not
logically. Coincidence is too simple, too handy a gadget, Dunnel. Isn't
it?"

"Maybe," said Dunnel, lighting a cigarette. "Anyway, I won't burden you
with a lot of hasty probing around. The Staff says you're O.K. to leave
the clinic today. Come to my office tomorrow afternoon if you feel like
it. If you don't, call me up and tell me why. See you tomorrow."

A little later after the Staff had given him another thorough
going-over which revealed nothing amiss, he met his wife who was
waiting for him with their gyrocar on the roof-landing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only a third of Klauson's normal life was gone, yet he looked twice his
age except for rare moments like this. He kissed Lin almost boyishly
as they stood together looking over the gleaming plastic structures
piercing a clear, blue sky. A soft warm summer wind blew disarmingly
over Washington.

Finally Klauson said abruptly: "I'm sorry, Lin. You were right. I'll
admit the obvious. Something beyond the scope of our science is
blocking my progress. But what is it?"

She shook her head, her eyes brooding with concern for him, deep, dark.

"I've talked with the Science Council," she finally said in a whisper.
She turned with resolution to face him. "Howard, they have agreed with
me. You need a very long vacation. Our Moon House is gathering Lunar
dust, if there is any. I have the Council's support now. We're going to
the Moon and we're not going to think about anything that even suggests
biochemistry."

"There isn't any such a thing, not on this world," said Klauson.

"Howard. We're going to raise extraterrestrial flowers."

Klauson stared, and was suddenly and violently angry.

"Flowers! You're mad!"

"But the Council's on my side, Howard. They're going to"--she paused,
lips trembling--"going to accept your resignation from the Presidium."

A sick hate flooded his stomach, burst in his brain. He was stunned,
impotent. He quivered silently. It was their own staff that had said
there was nothing wrong with him! Yet, they were demanding that he
resign! Rest on that escapist's bromide, Luna. Retreat from reality;
rot in meaningless isolation.

"I'll not do it, Lin," he announced harshly. "I refuse to drop a
conclusion that might mean the final step in human evolution."

He was dazed, ill, as she led him silently into the gyrocar and piloted
it to their apartment. No use arguing with Lin about it. She had that
ageless woman's selfish love to protect her own kind. She and the
Council had combined to work against him, instead of helping him solve
the cursed enigma.

As soon as they reached home, Klauson contacted the Council President,
Gaudet, on the teleaudio. He argued the case, objected fiercely,
begged. Gaudet was kind, logical.

"We're all so sorry, Klauson," his huge head said. "But it is quite
obvious that you absolutely need a lengthy period of relaxation.
Although our own staff can find no logical basis for this decision, we
undoubtedly shall, and soon.

"You worked almost steadily for ten years. It is very possible that
some highly specialized cellular blockage has developed that even our
probers have failed to detect. A few years, raising flowers as Mrs.
Klauson has suggested, something completely dissociated from your
present work, is probably the answer. Then you can return to your
laboratories. Meanwhile, your assistant, Larry Verrill, can continue
with your research, perhaps?"

"Verrill is an excellent assistant," Klauson said, controlling himself
with difficulty. "But he can never finish my work. I operate, many
times, empirically; you know that. My brain alone holds the key to
correlate most of the basic links of the chain."

But no amount of discussion could persuade Gaudet. It had all been
definitely decided by the Council and Lin. He would retire to the Moon
House by Schroeter's Canyon and raise fantastic flowers in the Moon's
unique environmental conditions. He would vegetate and rot with the
flowers!

"Raising flowers!" Klauson sagged, groaned helplessly, desperately.

The next afternoon in Dunnel's office with its psycho-harmonies
shifting benevolently from the opaque walls, Dunnel was saying: "Fear
of failure, that's one possibility; unlikely though. Doesn't check with
your psycho-charts."

"There is no doubt," Klauson said. "I'm just as certain about this
conclusive step as I've been about every one I've taken since I began."

"But you don't know," Dunnel pointed out, "until you've concluded and
some illusive censor prevents that. Wait! Here's another possibility:
maybe you're afraid of the consequences of giving humanity the ability
to live forever! Think of what it would mean. Think of it consciously!
I can't. It's too big. Every basic pattern completely altered.
Psychology and the social sciences, particularly, would no longer
apply. Humanity would become something unhuman by all present standards
of evaluation. It's really an alien concept, Professor. Subconsciously,
you're afraid of what it would mean!"

"I see your reasoning there, Dunnel. Frankly, I've never considered
that at all. I've been so wrapped up in the thing itself."

"But let's assume that your subconscious has been working on it,"
insisted Dunnel. "I tell you, Professor; you go back to that laboratory
of yours, right now. Get in there with all the fatal paraphernalia
and just introspect for a while. Think of the whole, and go beyond
the limits of your specialized course. There are so many possible
consequences to a sudden transition from mortality to immortality.
Think about the things that can, and will, happen. Seems to me, that
might well be the motivation for the fear. And, Professor, come back
and see me tomorrow."

       *       *       *       *       *

Klauson was like the pilots who get rocket psychosis on their first
Luna run, and who must immediately make another flight or lose their
resistance to space-fear forever. He must go back to the laboratory.
Try again.

And Dunnel's diagnosis about Klauson's possible fear of the
consequences of giving humanity sudden immortality--he definitely
had something there. Klauson wondered why he had never thought of it
before. Like Dunnel had said, it would change every present standard
of humanity. The enormity of the possible repercussion!

Klauson trembled a little with triumph. Yes, that could be the
basis for the fear. A scientist must weigh the consequences of
his discoveries. Would the secret of eternal life be a boon, or a
catastrophe for man?

Klauson entered a public teleaudio booth and got Verrill's apartment
in east Washington. Verrill's eyes seemed to have changed--they looked
like those of someone else. Ridiculous. Yes, he did need a rest.

"Verrill," he said tightly, "I'm going back to the laboratory again,
right now. I want you there, too."

Verrill's eyes widened, then narrowed. His mouth slipped into that sad,
cynical grin.

"If you insist, Professor. And you always would, of course."

"Why--er--naturally, I will," said Klauson. "Meet me there in fifteen
minutes."

The teleaudio faded, but Klauson sat there a moment. He brushed at his
face wearily. So strange, the way Verrill had talked--like a stranger
almost. But fifteen minutes later the vaulted height of the gleaming
laboratory was very silent, and seemed, somehow, cold, as Klauson saw
Verrill walking toward him. Verrill seemed to blot out the laboratory,
loom extraordinarily large before him.

Klauson had unconsciously been backing away. He felt the hard cold
light of the supporting column against the small of his back. He was
looking fearfully, into Larry Verrill's eyes.

_Into his eyes! Into incredible, swirling blackness. Into space and
time and--eternity._

[Illustration: He was looking into incredible swirling blackness--and
space and time and eternity.]

And Professor H. Klauson--_knew_.

"Varro," said the thin, wavering body. "It is time for your little
transmigration. The Switcher is ready. Don't think too much about what
you must do. We are four-dimensional but we are still not very well
adapted to the complications of the coordinate stream."

Klauson knew, yet it was far beyond his capacity to understand. He was
seeing something that had happened, yet was still to happen. Fourth
dimensionally, time, as he knew it, was meaningless. The man who had
spoken in this strange world revealed by Verrill's alien brain, was
named Grosko. The other figure, Varro, was also Verrill. Klauson knew
that, but he understood very little.

Grosko's boneless fingers were manipulating the matrix coordinate
console.

"I've never been convinced," muttered Varro. "It is an incomprehensible
cycle, even to our fourth-dimensional minds. Where can there ever be
any logical end?"

"You have already taken on some of your three-dimensional
characteristics--those of Verrill, whose body you will assume control
of, and merge your mentality with. Already you are beginning to think
in terms of absolutes, in terms of three-dimensional logic. Forget a
hypothetical end, which our fourth-dimensional consciousness knows
cannot exist. You will encounter no difficulties. You will gradually
adjust yourself to their concepts of the absolute; but still you will
retain enough of your Varro mentality to carry out your assignment."

"But it seems so unprogressive in the Universal sense," persisted
Varro. "Everything seems only a big, futile circle."

"But not for us; that is your three-dimensional absolutism creeping
in already though you have not even begun merging with Verrill yet.
You are beginning to make premature psychological adjustments. There
are countless tangents of probability. And in the particular one that
has evolved us, Professor Klauson must be prevented from completing
his research. If he does, we will not evolve. But of course we have
evolved, so it is inevitable that you will carry out your assignment
successfully. Inevitable."

"No free agency, even in the eternal sense," mused Varro. "Everything
in all dimensions of space-time is interdependent. We are aware of it,
because of our fourth-dimensional minds, but those of Klauson's stage
of development are not."

"That is correct," said Grosko. "They realize that everything that has
happened is determined by a complex array of circumstantial causes,
but they see this only in immediate, comprehensible perspective. The
same is true in the Universal also, and in the time-anlim, which their
three-dimensional consciousness cannot comprehend.

"Cause and effect, fourth-dimensionally, works also in what they would
consider, reversal. What they see as an effect, is also cause. They
tie in past, future, present, with cause and effect. Really there is
no association. An effect can be in what they consider their past; and
a cause can exist in their future. But you will understand after you
assume possession of Verrill's consciousness."

"I hope so. It certainly seems terribly involved to me right now."

"That is a natural reaction of Verrill's mind which you are already
beginning to associate yourself with. Well, Varro, you are ready for
the complete alteration?"

"Naturally," said Varro. "It is on the chronosophic charts, isn't it?"

"Good-by, then," said Grosko. "Don't use the Power unless you find it
absolutely necessary, then only mildly of course--"

Varro was enveloped in the radiations of the matrix. His consciousness
molecules leaked slowly into the unsuspecting and narrow confines of
Larry Verrill's three-dimensional consciousness as he graduated from
World Tech in 2081, two years before he was to become the laboratory
assistant of Professor H. Klauson.

"You--you're Varro?" Klauson managed in a hoarse whisper.

Larry Verrill nodded. A curtain had dropped over Verrill's eyes behind
which those incredible, incomprehensible vistas had opened for a brief
interim.

       *       *       *       *       *

Klauson staggered. There was no basic comprehension. No two-dimensional
being could imagine such a thing as _UP_. What he termed past, present,
future, to a fourth-dimensional concept would be regarded in the same
way as if he, Klauson, were floating a mile in the air regarding the
activities of a two-dimensional plane-man. Their only temporal sense
would involve simply horizontal movement. And his three-dimensional
concepts couldn't ever conceive of those of Varro's. For Varro, there
was no past, present, future, as Klauson saw them.

Varro and Grosko and their world was really a future stage of man to
Klauson. But Klauson and his world of 2089 was not really the past
to Varro. It was only a part of the time-anlim, a term which was
meaningless to Klauson. It referred to the oneness of space-time which
was clearly envisioned in their fourth-dimensional minds.

"You're not--human," Klauson finally managed to say.

It sounded strange, and somewhat absurd to him after he said it.

"No," agreed Verrill or Varro. "And I might say to you, 'you're not
an ape.' You think of past and future as somehow, separate. I can
only tell you that it is all a kind of oneness, which we call the
time-anlim. You realize now that my being here is inevitable. It isn't
a matter of probability. It was never intended that you should finish
this experiment, so that the present stage of humanity might live
forever, forever, itself, as a word, being meaningless abstraction."

"But how can someone from the future come back through time to
influence the present so that they will--"

Verrill interrupted impatiently.

"That has already been partially explained. Your three-dimensional
brain can never understand it fully. Sufficient to say, Professor
Klauson, that immortality, by its very nature, is impossible."

Klauson sagged despondently, futilely. He was sitting on a stool
looking up. There was no impulse to escape, or to attempt to avoid what
was too obviously his end.

"Why?" he asked, listlessly. "Why is immortality impossible?"

"Put it this way, Professor." Klauson winced; the voice sounded so like
the harmless, youthful and rather naive Larry Verrill. "Immortality
means the cessation of man's association with the process of entropy.
Your developing makes another integral part of the entropic process
possible. You call it evolution."

He paused, then continued. "You regard us as human. You have other
labels, mutants, homo-superiors, or even supermen. But we only develop
in this process called by you, evolution. Can't you see the paradox
of immortality? It would be feasible if immortality was some part of
the evolving process, but it isn't. It might be in some other line of
probability, but not this particular one. Look into what you call the
past, Professor."

Verrill's eyes were narrow, inscrutable.

"If the ape had suddenly developed immortality, you wouldn't have
evolved. Thinking man could never have evolved from an immortal and
therefore stagnant race of apes. Just as mortal man came from apes, so
homo-superior evolves from mortal man. Paradoxically, there can be no
immortality, if the true racial chain is to survive."

Klauson sat stiffly. Well, Dunnel had gotten close to the correct
solution though he could never dream of the truth. There had been a
deeply buried subconscious fear of the results of immortality. It would
have destroyed the--well, what he called 'man's future.' But there was
one thing that might be explained.

"Why have you allowed me to advance as far as I have in my research?"

Verrill smiled sadly. "Your whole concept is based on false logic," he
said. "But I can't explain. There isn't a question of _allowing_ you.
You see, you had to develop this far with your experimentation. Your
work involving cosmic ray treatment of genes resulted in certain germ
plasm alteration in certain individuals. This will bring about our
fourth-dimensional emergence in what you call 'later,' as mutants."

"Then," said Klauson faintly, "I'm also responsible for you."

The young man nodded. "You would term it that. But it's all
an integral whole. You deal in cause and effect. But the
closest you can get to our logic is to hyphenate it endlessly,
cause-effect-cause-effect-cause-effect-cause-effect-cause-effect-cause-effect,
without end."

There was a heavy silence. Then Verrill said, not unkindly, "I had
better take care of you now, Professor. Your mind will have to bear far
too much strain. Your reasoning processes will demand an explanation,
which for your three-dim consciousness, is impossible. You will develop
a psychosis unless I alter your mind sufficiently."

"What are you going to do?" whispered Klauson, his mouth dry.

"By suggestion, I'll alter your basic behavior and motivation patterns.
You will retain most of your present mental characteristics. Amnesia
followed by new and fundamentally different lines of activity."

Klauson started to run away, but he found himself sucked into a
whirling maelstrom of senseless, unrelated chaos. He reeled dizzily.
He felt himself falling....

       *       *       *       *       *

He saw his laboratory assistant, Larry Verrill, standing above him,
saying with nervous concern, "Professor, you've fainted again. You all
right now?"

Klauson felt a queer shocking sensation, an intangible impulse, rather
painful.

"No, Larry," he replied. "It's over with me now. I really don't think
I could have succeeded in achieving immortality for mankind anyway.
There's a flaw in the chain of development, somewhere. And the whole
procedure is so complex we could never go over it and find the error.
Goodnight, Larry. I'm going home."

He didn't wait for his gyrocar to reach his apartment to tell Lin the
startling developments. He contacted her by teleaudio.

"I've changed my mind, Lin dear. I've decided to accept your and the
Council's advice. Get together everything we'll want to take to Moon
House with us. And, by the way, get all the microfilm you can find on
botany and extraterrestrial horticulture. I wonder what has been the
matter with me all my life?"

Her face shone with a lovely pink flush of happiness as it faded from
the small screen.

Klauson relaxed as the gyrocar sped toward his apartment. His eyes
closed, his day-dream was one of glorious technicolor, overflowing with
mental reproductions of the magnificent flowers he and Lin would grow
in the quiet comfort of the Lunarian valleys.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK VICTORIOUS FAILURE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
