The Project Gutenberg eBook of In the cards, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: In the cards

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: July 1, 2022 [eBook #68441]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IN THE CARDS ***





                             IN THE CARDS

                          An Amazing Novelet

                          By GEORGE O. SMITH

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Thrilling Wonder Stories August 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                               CHAPTER I

                              _The Theft_


The masked man crept down the corridor stealthily. It was quite dark
in the hallway but he knew that it was a synthetic darkness, a matter
of temporal convenience, for on a spaceship, time is regulated by the
Terran daily cycle of twenty-four hours.

On spacecraft the passenger-sections observe a strict twelve-hour
division between sheer brilliance and utter darkness. He estimated
that it was a full two hours before light-time, which meant that those
couples who preferred to sit and hold hands whilst staring at the
rather over-stable aspect of the sky were by now bedded down and asleep.

Even so the masked man understood that with such it was not the sky
that was appealing, and that under such circumstances time was a minor
and often disregarded item. So he went carefully just in case he should
happen upon such.

He was lucky. There were no couples immersed in one another's dreams
and so the masked man went all the way from the auxiliary spacelock
near the bottom to the "B" deck, just below the rounded hemisphere of
seamless plastiglass that domed the top of the spacecraft.

He entered the corridor that led to the staterooms and, by the dim hall
lights, found the room he sought. The lock was obviously intended to
keep out only honest men and the door was of the same manufacture. He
took a tiny fountain-pen-sized implement from a loop in his belt and
applied the business end to the door.

There was neither sound nor light. Silently the thing worked and it
completely removed a sliver ten-thousandths of an inch wide as he moved
the tiny beam in a careless square around the lock. He grasped the knob
in his hand as he completed the cut. That way it would not drop to the
floor and make an unwanted racket.

Shoving the door open gently, he entered and closed it behind him. He
took a moment to replace the square of aluminum with the lock and,
with a couple of quick motions, he welded the square back in place.

An experienced welder would have called the job 'buttering' because the
patch was held by only two minute battens of welded metal. It could be
broken out with a single twist of the hand.

Then, reasonably safe from outside detection--if the steward passed,
he would not notice unless he gave each door a careful scrutiny--the
masked man took out a tiny flashlight and searched the room quickly.

A tousled head of luxuriant hair half covered the pillowcase but the
face beneath it was not visible from the door. The masked man shrugged
and turned to the wall compartment where the baggage was stored. He
knew about where to look. He fumbled through three drawers, and finally
came upon a box of some ten cubic inches.

It was not too heavy and the masked man tucked it under one arm and
smiled confidently. His pen-beam he used to weld the call-button to
its frame so that it could not be pushed. He used it to weld the lock
in a barred position and, again outside, he welded the patch together
firmly. The inhabitant was to all intents and purposes a prisoner until
she could command attention by yelling and beating upon the door.

With the same stealth that he had used in coming this way he returned
to the auxiliary spacelock. He donned the spacesuit he had left there
and looked at the safety-switch that had been welded closed. He
shrugged--no need of opening the switch to close the door upon it.
He'd welded the switch shut so that opening the auxiliary lock hadn't
flipped the warning lamp on the pilot's panel.

Then the masked man stepped out of the airlock into empty space,
kicking himself away from the side of the spacecraft. At once he became
a separate celestial body, and the motion of the ship with regard to
his present status was an acceleration of one gravity, though his
velocity was intrinsically that of the spacecraft upon his instant of
severance.

But intrinsic velocity of this nature never harmed a soul and the
action as he saw it, was that the ship was stable and he was falling
with Terran constants towards the tail.

       *       *       *       *       *

He waited, counting off the minutes by his watch. The spacecraft
dwindled and was finally lost in the distance. Yet he waited, for the
first use of his suit-drive would raise a spot on the pilot's celestial
sphere, giving warning.

An hour later he applied the drive on his suit and, using a small
direction finder, he located another arriving ship. Using extreme
care, he put himself in the course of the oncomer and applied his
suit-drive with extreme caution. He matched the acceleration of the
other ship, matched its course and then, by increments, let the ship
catch up with him.

Eventually it passed him close enough, and he drove himself through
the main open spacelock. He slammed the airlock door and went to the
control room. He made a rapid turnover and applied the drive to put as
many miles as possible between himself and the pirated superliner.

Only then did he remove his suit, stow it, and address his interest
to the package. It contained a strange crystal. The crystal was a
perfect cube two inches to a side. From face to opposite face it was
as transparent as space itself. Even the surfaces were non-reflecting.
Looking through it one derived a sort of tunnel effect, for the
surrounding faces were opaque. Holding it at a distance from the eye
and looking though it gave the impression of a two-by-two square tube
made of some metal having zero thickness. A thin square--an optical
illusion--marked the boundary of the optical axis.

He nodded. This was the crystal he sought. He checked one of the opaque
pair of faces with a continuity tester and confirmed his belief. For
one axis of the crystal was optical, another axis was a superconductor
of electricity. The third axis was a magnetic axis and was a perfect
conductor of magnetic flux. This was harder to check with simple
equipment but the testing of the other two axes gave him sufficient
proof.

He nodded in satisfaction.

Success!

Now, give him time to work out his problem, and everything would be
just as he had planned. Getting his hands on that crystal, he felt, was
going to be the first step in the success of Jim Forrest. He opened a
cabinet door and started to push things aside to make space for it,
when from behind him, a cool voice said:

"I'll take that!"

He turned at the voice and his face went through several changes,
coming out finally with a stunned look.

"You were locked in."

"Yes?" The girl shrugged. "Well, you were locked out! Now I'll take
that crystal!" Her statement was backed up by a heavy blaster that
looked like a semiportable in comparison to her spacegloved hand. The
hand was small and the blaster was heavy but there was no waver to the
green-crystal muzzle. It was trained perfectly upon Jim Forrest's belt
buckle.

"Yes? And where will you take it?"

"None of your business!" she snapped.

He looked at her suit and shrugged. "Better call for aid," he said,
pointing at the space radio. "You'll never make it in suit-drive."

"Drivel!" she snorted. "You'll run me near Terra before we part."

"My dear Ellen Haynes," he said with exaggerated politeness, "may I
point out that we are not going to Terra?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ellen laughed nastily, which made it seem worse because it went against
the human grain to hear such purely vicious laughter coming from such
an attractive girl.

"We'll go," she said shortly, "whether you drive or not. I can run this
doodlebug too." She waved the blaster suggestively. "Turn it--or else!"

"Y'know," he replied, "maybe you'd better drill me. I don't know that I
like the idea of chasing all over the solar system with Ellen Haynes."

"Turn the ship and get going."

"No," he said flatly. He stretched and went into a relaxed posture.
"We're heading for Ganymede." He looked at her--stared at her--and
smiled slightly. His attitude became almost paternal, as he stepped
forward. "You know," he said quietly, "we both want the same things.
We ought to do them together."

"Not on my life," she said. "And stop right there!"

"You stole it first," Jim Forrest told her. "Right out from under my
hands. I know why. You want to prove the opticostrictive effects, don't
you?"

"It is my right to try it," she said flatly. "And I'm going to do it my
own way!"

"But I know more about it than you do," he told her gently.

"I doubt that," she snapped.

"I've studied it," he said quietly. "I can identify the proper magnetic
and electric axes without test. Can you?"

"I can learn," she said sharply. "Now stop--or I'll fire!"

"You see, when your dad discovered this thing he turned it over to
the government. That was the law with any by-product of the uranium
pile. They, however, happened to be working on something else, looking
for some definite effect and couldn't take time off to investigate a
crystallographic monstrosity. So it just laid around and grew dust
until I--"

"I know all that," she snapped. "Now...."

"Right," he said calmly. "Right. And I was merely holding your
attention until...."

He leaped forward--forward and slightly to one side. She pulled the
trigger hastily and the beam spat viciously but invisibly, scorching
the aluminum wall of the little craft, where its reflection ricocheted
across the room to burn a wall map. The aluminum behind that reflected
it again, and this time it lost itself in the absorbing surface of some
methacrylate plastic, which swelled and exploded gently into shards of
gooey stuff.

By this time, Jim Forrest was beside the girl. He chopped down on
her arm viciously. She dropped the blaster and he kicked it into the
corner. Then, using his weight, he crowded her into the pilot's seat
and reached over and slammed on a full five gravities.

"I can take that and move," he told her. "But you can't. Ellen Haynes,
we're heading for Ganymede."

"Captain Turner will kill you," she snapped.

"Captain Turner will have to catch me first." He laughed. "And in the
meantime perhaps we can come to some agreement."

"I'll never deal with a common criminal," she told him.

"How righteous!" he scoffed. "And how did you come by this in the
first place?"

"Well, it was my father's," she told him.

"A matter of opinion only," he said. "Just your opinion against most
of the Solar System. The odds, Ellen, are against you!" He laughed.
"And your Captain Turner? Whose side will he take? Yours--or the Solar
Guard, for whom he has worked for eight years?"

"Mine," she said stoutly. "He understands moral justice."

Forrest laughed bitterly. "Uh-huh--and a pair of luminous, provocative
brown eyes!"

She turned her head angrily away. There was no sense in arguing with
the man. Furthermore, she knew that Captain Turner was a long way from
an impersonal member of the law so far as Ellen Haynes was concerned.
She would bide her time.

Turner would be certain to find them soon and then this criminal would
get what he deserved--even if she had to use her charm to enrage the
officer. She knew that Jack Turner would see a mad, flaming red if he
thought that Forrest had harmed her in any way.




                              CHAPTER II

                           _Rescue in Space_


Not very far behind them, Captain Jack Turner of the Solar Guard was
following the little cruiser grimly. When it leaped in acceleration to
five gravities, he assumed that they knew he was following them and
decided that stealth was no longer necessary.

He crammed his power on, getting a full six gravities out of the
Guardship. From time to time he considered the problem that confronted
him. His--well, she was not his fiancée, but she meant more to him
than the word 'friend' implies--was in possession of material labeled
contraband. Nothing of intrinsic value, true--normally it would never
have been missed--but it had been removed from the specimen files of
the Solar Laboratory, and that in itself was a breach of the law.

There seemed to be a dog-in-the-manger effect here. The government
physicists might never get around to looking at the thing regularly, so
busy they were. Yet they could not permit any other experimenter to do
more than study the peculiar thing through a plate glass specimen case.

Turner's mind rejected the problem. He did not know the circumstances
wholly. His matter-synchronized detector told him that the crystal had
embarked on the spaceliner from Venus to Terra, that somehow it had
left the liner and was now decelerating in such a back-vector that he
suspected one of the Jovian satellites as its destination.

The problem of what he would actually do, he disregarded. Up to the
time he confronted the girl he could view the problem dispassionately
and impersonally. Whether his love for the girl would overcome his
sworn duty--he'd face that when it came.

Watching his range integrator carefully, he set the autopilot to bring
him into contact with the fleeing ship and then sat back to relax. It
was hard on the human system to hit it up at six gravities, though
everything possible had been done to make the flyer comfortable under
such accelerations.

Even so, loaded with gravanol, which added tonus to the muscles and
prevented the draining of blood from the nerve and brain centers, the
record was held by a small, wiry fellow named Tom Whitcomb: Eight
gravities for four hours before blackout was his mark.

Whitcomb, of course, was merely out for a record and did not have the
emotional impetus of a project to steel his system with adrenaline.

The Guardship approached the fleeing craft and Turner dropped his
acceleration to match the other ship. He sent a flaming beam at them
that racketed against the hull and flared greenish hell through
the observation ports and rang all the alarms in the ship. His
audiostrictor beam caught the hull and his voice, as he spoke into the
microphone, made the little cruiser ring to his stentorian tones.

"Guardship under Turner!" rattled the ship's hull in a controlled
vibration that shook the eardrums. "Drop to one gravity! Prepare to
submit to search!"

In the other ship, Forrest shrugged. "There's your little pal now," he
said.

Ellen looked at him, white-lipped. "What are you going to do?"

He laughed as he flipped the power switch down to one gravity. "This is
a personal cruiser," he said. "We have nothing to fight back with other
than harsh words and a set of knives in the galley. I should dislike
to have this crate riddled by a Guardsman. I should even further
dislike the possible discontinuation of my checkered career. We'll see
your little chum."

"He'll help me," she said with a positive air.

"That's swell." He grinned wolfishly. "I wish you both luck. But I'm
sensible enough to think that it might be better if we could circumvent
him."

Forrest smiled wearily. There was no reason to tell the girl that laws
were laws and therefore inflexible regardless of the instantaneous
injustice to an occasional individual. By and large, laws worked for
overall justice or they would not be laws. He rested easily, getting up
only once to retrieve the girl's heavy blaster, which he inspected and
dropped into his pocket idly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the Guardship was upon them--close enough to reach out and take
hold of the little cruiser with tractor beams. The spacelocks came
together under Turner's manipulations of the beams and both spacelocks
clanged open.

Jack Turner swallowed deeply. Whatever the score at this point, he was
confronted with the problem of his life. "You surrender?" he demanded
as he entered the control room.

"You're in," said Forrest cryptically. "Now what?"

"The zonium crystal," stated Turner shortly. "I'll take that first. It
is the property of the laboratory."

Ellen looked quietly at him. "What about him?" she asked, indicating
Forrest.

"Well?" he said shortly.

"He stole it from me," she said plaintively.

"But you stole it from Venus," said Turner. "Under the law, you are
conspiring to deprive the government of its rightful property."

"I presume that I am listed as a criminal?" asked Ellen, more
plaintively.

Turner blinked. "What can I do?" he asked.

Ellen looked pleading. "Dad discovered zonium," she said. "Dad
predicted it and spent six months producing the single crystal we have.
Then because of laws, Dad was deprived of the possible benefits of his
study and work. Is that fair?"

"Who is to judge fairness?" asked Turner. "It has been the law for
seventy years that any product of the uranium piles is the exclusive
property of the government. That is because danger might attend any
individual experimentation on unknown materials.

"If you do not know nuclear history I can tell you that Tompkins and
Clagone nearly blasted Terra off of the map because they inadvertently
stacked a couple of transuranic elements side by side. To prevent such
mishaps the law was set up. I ask you, Ellen, do you know anything
about zonium?"

"Not much excepting its principal properties."

"Then you might be meddling with something that could destroy Sol."

"Not likely," she retorted.

"So?" asked Turner with a smile. "Remember that the unpredictable
effects start with the uranium series. Fission occurs in several of
the uranium-rare-earth metals, plutonium and the uranium isotopes two
hundred thirty-four and two hundred thirty-five. Number ninety-seven
was never known until the uranium pile made it, you know, and it, like
other elements of the zero group, is an inert gas.

"But it is a gas which exhibits magnetic properties. Number
ninety-eight has been known to combine with all of the acid elements.
And number ninety-nine is naturally radioactive, breaking down to
protoactinium by a double emission of alpha particles. Unless you know
what to do with zonium how can you predict its behaviour?"

"Is it right to bury the results of a man's lifework?" demanded Ellen.

Guardsman Turner faced Jim Forrest. "What can I do?" he asked simply.
"My affection and my duty are opposing. I understand both viewpoints.
It is hard to see a life work set aside by officialdom, rules and what
might seem like bureaucracy. On the other hand I am a member of the
Law. I cannot turn traitor, yet I cannot harm Ellen. I would like to
retain both Ellen and my self respect."

"My father--" began Ellen harshly.

"Was, after all, working for the Lab," interrupted Turner. "He was
amply paid."

"Yes," she said bitterly. "A laboratory fee. You know very well that
every technician in the Lab that discovers something useful is given a
royalty in addition. That's what I've been cheated of!"

"They may yet investigate it," said Turner.

"I'd prefer the rewards before I'm a hundred years old," said Ellen.

"Look," said Turner after a moment's thought. "Admittedly the
government lab ignored zonium for more important things. The
government was not interested in zonium until it was stolen. But
consider--this crystal has been stolen by people who have experimental
experience.

"The government will wonder just why it is so important that an
individual will break interplanetary law to possess it. That is a
question that will probably force someone to work on it. Then you can
gain the benefits legally."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ellen considered that for a moment. It was more or less true. "Then
tell me how it is to be returned?" she asked.

"That is easy. I can make you a temporary deputy of the Solar Guard.
You return the crystal to headquarters. I continue to pursue the thief."

Forrest, who had been sitting easily in his chair watching the play of
personalities, suddenly sat up and looked at Jack Turner pointedly.

"You mean me?" he asked.

"I do."

"That's a nice trick," snapped Forrest. "Why not deputize me and go
hunting her?"

"Because you have nothing to lose by jumping deputization," said
Captain Turner shortly. "Miss Haynes has every reason in the world
to do exactly as I said. As for the true thief, my report will state
honestly that I located the crystal in this ship--your craft, Forrest.
I will also state that it is my belief that Miss Haynes was not here of
her own free will."

"She came here unasked," snapped Forrest.

The Guardsman nodded. "So did I," he said easily. "And possibly for the
same reason. To return the zonium crystal to its rightful owner."

Forrest laughed harshly. "Nice sophistry," he said with a sneer.
"You'll omit the fact that your definition differs from that of Miss
Haynes as to the term 'rightful owner'? She thinks it belongs to her,
you know."

"When she returns the crystal," said Turner, "her intent will be shown
by act regardless of her statement--or your statements for that matter."

Forrest smiled. "The scales of justice seem to have become unbalanced
by the added weight of a lipstick," he said cynically. "I hope you two
will be very unhappy together."

"Accusing members of the Guard will get you little," said Turner.

"I seem to have been got already," grunted Forrest. "Frankly, why don't
you return the crystal and let Miss Haynes pursue me? As any pursuit
is going to be a laughing matter since you've already caught me, I'd
prefer to be pursued by Miss Haynes."

"No thank you," replied the girl. "We'll do it as Captain Turner
suggests."

"And he'll chase me all the way to Ganymede while we're living in the
same ship--with his crate fastened on to mine?"

"That need not be mentioned."

"Well, I'll darn well mention it!" snapped Forrest.

"You can't prove it," she told him.

"Ellen," said Turner to the girl, "you go into my ship and get the
tender ready. You'll take off and head for Mars in the tender, which
will be a little rigorous but not too uncomfortable nor dangerous.

"Once you reach Mars, you contact Guard Headquarters at the spaceport.

"Your arriving with the ship will give you amnesty until you can
see General Harris and I'll write an official letter proving your
deputization. Check?"

Ellen Haynes nodded. She turned to Jim Forrest and said, "It doesn't
make much difference who does the work on zonium so long as it is done.
At least it will not be done by you.

"And when it is done I'll get my legal share, which can't be claimed
for any work done by Jim Forrest." Then she turned to Captain Turner.
"Be careful," she said sincerely. "He's a glib operator."

"He'll not get away from me," said Turner.

Ellen Haynes took the crystal out of the cupboard and tucked it under
one arm. Since she was still in space suit she merely flipped the
helmet bowl over her head and left the pilot room to make Turner's
tender ready for a spacehop.




                              CHAPTER III

                          _Counteroffensive_


"So," said Jim Forrest, "she won."

"Won?" replied Turner.

"She said that she'd end up with the crystal. What makes you think that
if she stole it once from the laboratory she wouldn't steal it from you
the second time?"

"Ellen Haynes is no thief!" snapped Turner.

"No? Well, consider this, Turner. Ellen Haynes does not consider
herself a thief when she appropriates that rare hunk of rock. So far
as Haynes is concerned, she believes that she has every right to it,
especially in view of the fact that the government ignored it, thus
depriving both her and her father of whatever benefits it might bring.
Since she considers herself no thief, she is under no moral compulsion
to deliver."

"She is a deputized Guardsman," said Turner. "As such, she is sworn to
uphold the law."

"She was--and until proven otherwise--a citizen and equally responsible
to uphold the law," said Forrest. "But who took the thing in the first
place?"

"She is now a sworn member--"

"Look, Captain Turner," interrupted Forrest sharply. "Do you mean to
stand there and tell me that a policeman is morally better than a
citizen?"

Turner flushed. If he said 'yes' he'd be talking like a hypocrite--if
he said 'no' he would almost be admitting that he might have been
mistaken in sending the desired crystal out under the supervision of
the one who had initially stolen it. His training and loyalty to the
Guard made him believe that a man dedicated to the interests of the law
was under more compulsion than a mere citizen without an oath.

He admitted it was wrong. He was forgetting that a criminal can swear
an oath and be unfaithful to it because he doesn't mind adding false
witness to a list of greater crimes providing it is gainful for him.

Forrest noted the turmoil in the Guardsman's mind and pressed his
point. "Ellen told me that you'd help her," he said. "And you have. I
think that Ellen believed that you'd go all the way and eschew your
uniform for her, but the way you did it was to both of your advantages."

"Ellen wouldn't lie to me," said Turner stoutly.

"I know," said Forrest cynically, "because she loves you. Fine. So if
she loves you in the first place, why does she break the law you've
sworn to uphold? To heck with appearances, Turner. You know in your own
mind that if you condone her theft of the crystal you might as well
throw that fancy black and gold suit into the converter and join her in
a life of--well, she's no criminal save for one breach--petty crime.
No doctor ever got along with a medicophobe for a wife. No policeman
ever spent a happy married life with a she-pickpocket. So it is either
your life or hers that you'll have to follow."

"Perhaps not," replied Turner. "If she does as I expect her to and
returns the crystal she can erase her minor offense. Everybody makes
mistakes, Forrest. The smart man seldom repeats his errors."

"You're still forgetting that Ellen Haynes considers her act no crime.
Whatever the crystal is good for she has been deprived of benefit by
a situation that ignores its existence. Her theft of the thing works
no hardship on the Solar System or any of its people. Define theft,
Turner."

"Look," snapped Turner, "Ellen is no criminal. She has committed a
crime which she can erase by her own hand. Why should she be punished
for an interplanetary offense when she can and will do that which will
nullify her crime?"

"Meaning?"

"Meaning simply that the uninterested arm of the law will be more
convinced when she turns up with the crystal and knows that I am still
pursuing the thief. I'll gladly sacrifice one criminal--you--who have
no justification as she has, in order to see her free and rewarded."

"Well," said Forrest standing up and stretching, "I think this has gone
far enough, Turner." He picked up a package of cigarettes from the
table, put one in his mouth, and then felt for a match. He lifted the
fountain-pen-sized blaster from his belt and triggered it.

The tiny beam lit his cigarette and he drew in a lungful of smoke. He
blew out the smoke in a large cloud that hid his actions momentarily.
Under the cover of the smoke he turned the cap on the little gadget,
pointed it at Turner, and pressed the button.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tiny beam seared the air and drilled a tiny hole in the broad
green muzzle-crystal of Turner's blaster. It heated to dull-red almost
instantly, and Turner hurled the weapon from him with a shock of
unexpected pain. The weapon charred the floor as it landed.

Following the beam as fast as he could Jim Forrest threw his Sunday
punch while Turner was still reacting from the burn-shock The flying
fist caught Turner on the jaw and the guardsman went down like a
pole-axed steer. He came to as Forrest was snapping the Guardsman's own
handcuffs on him.

"I'm no murderer," he told Turner. "I calculate it to be sixty hours
to Mars at one gravity. I'll set the autopilot that way. I'll set the
warning-radio also. I'll lock you in the living-suite below, where
you will have all the comforts of a celibate home excepting the means
with which to get out. In sixty hours your velocity will be zero with
respect to Mars and the warning-radio will hurl out your own personal
distress call."

"You're...!" blazed Turner.

"Yes, I know," smiled Forrest. "A criminal. Well, kidnaping a Guardsman
is merely adding to my long and checkered career. But you see, Turner,
I want that crystal. You can also add theft of an official Guardship to
my roster of criminal acts. So, lead the way to the living-suite below."

"I'll...."

"Oh. Turner, I might suggest that when you come looking for me you be
very careful. I'll be driving a Guardship, you know, and if someone
takes a shot at me I'll be psychologically forced to defend myself as
a mere matter of survival. Guardships are pretty well-armed, or need I
tell you?"

Turner blazed with anger. "Okay," he snarled. "Lock me in. But you
can't lick the whole system! We'll get you cold! And if in the meantime
you intercept Miss Haynes, remember that you are interfering with an
official deputy."

"Then," smiled Forrest quite cheerfully, "I'm actually helping you to
prove that Ellen Haynes is no criminal, aren't I?"

Turner fumed and continued to fume as Jim Forrest welded the
living-suite door shut with his pen-beam.

Twenty minutes later, Turner felt the ship turn and accelerate towards
Mars. He felt a slight shock a moment later and knew that Jim Forrest
had just cast off in his Guardship. He cursed roundly and then,
sensibly, he sat down and relaxed.

He concluded sensibly there was little to be gained by spending sixty
hours in self-villification.

He'd failed temporarily but Forrest couldn't lick the whole solar
system....

Using Turner's matter-synchronized detector, Jim Forrest tracked the
tiny space tender down in a matter of less than two hours. The tender,
of course, was helpless when the Guardship tractor beam fastened onto
it, and it was drawn easily into the tender-lock and anchored.

The door opened and Ellen Haynes emerged, furious.

"Before you say anything," said Jim, "tell me whether you were really
going to headquarters or were just making off with the crystal again."

"What difference does it make now?" she asked bitterly.

"No difference to me," said Forrest idly. "I'm just trying to estimate
your character."

"I'm not taken in," she snapped. "With certain individuals you might
stir their interest enough to make them look at it askance. But with
the Solar Lab, who've already ignored the thing for years, they'd
continue. So...."

"So you think you're going to work on it yourself?"

"I most certainly am," she said with conviction.

He laughed shortly.

"You think not?" she demanded. "Either alone or with you, since you've
been after it and seem to have both me and the zonium at the same time
right now."

"Ellen," he said slowly, "I intend to destroy that crystal!"

       *       *       *       *       *

She grabbed for the box and shielded it with her body but Jim shook his
head. "Not here," he said. "There's nothing here that would destroy it."

"Your blaster?"

"Wouldn't touch it."

"I--a blaster wouldn't touch it?" asked Ellen Haynes in amazement.

"Wouldn't touch it," he said firmly and convincingly.

Ellen's eyes opened wide. "Armor!" she breathed. And in that one
instant the whole mighty idea came, flooding her mind and making her
almost reel in dizziness at the flood of jumbled ideas.

Guardships plated with zonium for protection; personal armor because
zonium was light in weight; zonium-lined blaster barrels to keep the
things from falling apart after a hundred or so shots and perhaps even
super-projectors protected by zonium liners.

The big projectors used on the Guardships were none too efficient
because they etched themselves into uselessness after a hundred or less
of the gigantic blasts. Half of a Guardship's bulk was filled with
spare blaster replacements.

"Armor," he nodded, with a look of horror.

"What's wrong with that?" she demanded sharply.

"That's the point. There's apparently nothing wrong with it," he said,
"except that there's no real reason for it. Who or what will attack a
Guardship? There is no common enemy loose in the Solar System and we
know that there are no extra-solar races capable of any massed attack
on Sol's family--so far, anyway. There is an occasional, wild-eyed
pirate but he is usually tracked down within a few weeks after he takes
his first victim. With zonium armor there could be piracy because a
pirate could then laugh at the heavily-armed Guardships."

"But it sounds good," she interrupted.

"And you know darn well that the Guard would immediately plate their
ships with zonium!"

"Certainly. And my income from that.... Why, I'd be unmentionably
wealthy!"

She positively glowed for a moment with the idea. Then she turned to
him and said, "But if a blaster wouldn't touch it, how do you hope to
destroy it? Toss it into the sun?"

Jim Forrest paled. He walked over to her and pushed her aside. He took
the zonium crystal from the box and hefted it while Ellen looked on in
fear that he would destroy it then and there.

"Ellen Haynes," he said solemnly, "this much zonium if hurled into the
sun would create a nova!"

"But it is so small."

"Yes, but zonium is a strange metal," he said. "The mass-energy
relation is carefully disregarded by zonium. In normal matter, energy
equals the mass times the square of the speed of light in centimeters
per second."

"But its mass is not considerable."

"Zonium is a temporal metal," said Forrest. "When it is under the
influence of a magnetic field passing through the magnetic axis--an
electrical current through the electrical axis--and a beam of light
through the optical axis its mass increases according to some
exponential function of the energy levels of the radiation that is
passing through it.

"Throw it into the sun where the radiation-energy output is some four
million tons of energy per second and zonium increases its apparent
mass by a factor of the cube--one exponential power for each axis
accepting and passing radiation--of the mass of the zonium times the
factorial expansion of the energy passing through it. It would be much
like hurling Jupiter into the sun."

He handed her the crystal. "Ellen Haynes," he said dramatically, "you
hold in your hand the agent of Sol's destruction!"

She looked at it with fascinated horror and gingerly replaced it in the
packing.

"So develop it. Plate your ships with it. Line the millions of blasters
with it. Line your power converters with it. Use zonium in the units
that give each dwelling light and power. Load every sportsman's
crate with it and have everybody tossing cubes of the stuff around.
Interesting stuff--kids will be playing with it. Then calculate your
chances of keeping a bit of it out of the sun."

Ellen Haynes shuddered. About once each year some spacecraft didn't
return, usually a small, privately-owned job that was trying to cut the
perihelion too thin. The mortality was rather high on the drones that
rode the inner flame-area of Sol's domain with automatic recorders.
Yet, with good supervision, zonium would be safe.

"How," she asked drily, "do you hope to destroy it?"

"I don't know," he said. "But it must be destroyed."




                              CHAPTER IV

                           _Biggest Meddler_


Ellen nodded slowly. Her dream of untold wealth dimmed somewhat. Yet
she knew that supervision of the zonium metal would insure its safety.
It had been so with the original fission of uranium and plutonium.

What had been made before could be made again. She would let Jim
Forrest destroy it and then set about getting it rebuilt again in
the government laboratory. What could any one man do to stop the
development of any single phase of science?

The thing to do now was to agree with him, learn from Jim Forrest all
the math and reasoning behind the stuff. Just how did he know--he alone
of all the worlds of Sol and their teeming billions--that zonium would
react that way. Especially when he had not worked with it.

But Ellen knew that before she could interest the laboratory in zonium,
she must have scientific and mathematical basis for her predictions.
With that, not only could she interest them but she would be forgiven
for her original theft. She would go along for now and learn as much as
she could about zonium.

"Tell me," she said interestedly, "how do you know all this about
zonium?"

"Know matrix-math?" he asked.

"A little."

"I'll bet I lose you along the way," he said. "But we've a week of hard
travel between here and Ganymede in which I can prove to you--and also
teach you how to handle matrix-math--that everything I've said is true."

Jim Forrest locked the crystal in the cabinet, and found paper and
pencils. He started to talk and he wrote equations as he spoke,
explaining each step as he went along. Ellen Haynes nodded. It was
thick, and she would require the whole week even to catch up to the
theories of Jim Forrest....

Captain Turner, imprisoned in Jim Forrest's personal cruiser, spent a
full twenty-hour period wondering. He had been resigned at first, but
the idea of sitting there was against his grain.

The welded door was a mean problem. How does one breach a solid
aluminum door when the thinner panels are three-sixteenths sheet
aluminum-magnesium alloy and the edgings and crossbars that hold the
panels are one-inch stock?

He undid the floor thumbscrews that held the chair down against
maneuverings in space and hefted it. It too was aluminum alloy. He
swung it at the door and dented the panel, but broke the legs of the
chair. Had the seat been heavy and solid that would have done nicely,
he thought.

But the chair-bottom itself was a mere frame upon which was woven a
plastic-rope in the standard pattern of a cane-bottomed chair. The
metal of the chair was brittle and he broke it after three swings that
put but a few minute scars on the panel of the door.

The floor lamp was little better--aluminum-zinc-magnesium die-castings.
Not only were the parts light and brittle, they were positively friable.

He tried the drawers in the dresser and they added to the pile of
broken metal. The bed was no good at all--just a welded-down shelf on
top of which was a thick airfoam mattress.

The kitchen quarters produced a couple of sharp knives, which he
employed to some advantage, but their very-long blades left Turner
with too little leverage until he broke them off short. Cutting
three-sixteenths aluminum alloy panel was no job for a knife.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sat down to think after that. Brute force was useless--brainwork
might produce an answer.

Aluminum is soluble in certain reagents--and he was in what amounted to
a three-room apartment. What common reagents did exist in the average
apartment? A few ounces of vinegar--three percent acetic acid. A pound
of salt--sodium chloride. Aluminum is soluble in a solution of sodium
hydroxide. Electrolysis of water containing sodium chloride produced
chlorine and sodium, which reacted with the water and produced sodium
hydroxide.

It looked like a long process. He was not a chemist, and therefore he
was not too certain of any effect. There was no reaction that he knew
of that would attack that door. Perhaps a chemist would know and no
doubt he would be laughed at by the chemists of the Guard when he told
of his futile attempts.

He went into the kitchen again. The drainage from the sink went into
the converter far below him in the ship. He had no chance of getting
to that at all. There was a small ventilator in every room but he was
neither an eel nor a cat and removing them, if he could, would give him
no chance. The air was forced out through a larger duct by an electric
fan but even so it was too small for him.

The electric fan?

The electric fan!

He tackled the fastenings with a dinner-knife and succeeded in removing
the small fan. He hitched it to longer leads from the floor lamp. He
removed the blade and saw the swiftly-rotating shaft--it could be used
as a drill.

It was blunt and polished, instead of sharp, but none the less a drill
in embryonic form. To sharpen it....

He pawed through the bathroom cabinet and returned with a small
nail-file. There was a corundum sharpening-stone in the kitchen. He
filed and he honed and the end of the fan-motor shaft took on a wide,
flat point. He set it against the door and tried to drill.

It was slow work but he made progress. He drilled through and then set
the drill near the first hole and continued. Slowly and inexorably
Captain Turner of the Space Guard added to his line of holes. He
forgot eating, ignored sleep. And as the hours passed Jack Turner came
closer to freedom by the minute.

At last he had a rough oval of holes in the bottom panel of the door.
Then, taking a heavy iron frying pan, Turner hammered at one side of
the oval where the holes were almost tangent. He broke through, turning
the slight end outward.

He hammered until he could set one end of the iron handle through,
and then he pried. The webbing between the holes tore until he had an
opening that prevented the use of the utensil at all.

He pried with knives, with fragments of the shattered chair, with his
bare hands. He finally took the motor itself, which was of steel and
heavy though small, and he swung it on its wire leads. He hurled it
again and again at the oval. The ship rang with the blows, but each
crash saw the oval leaning outward just a fraction more.

And then, lying on his back, Jack Turner kicked the oval outward with
his heels.

He was free!

Thirty hours instead of sixty--Turner raced to the control room and set
the ship on course toward Ganymede. He crammed on the power until he
could hardly stand to slow the course for Mars that he was on--almost
at turnover where his velocity was highest--and he added a vector that
would curve him through space toward Jove. Then, utterly weary, Jack
Turner found his bunk and went to sleep....

"You seem to know quite a bit about zonium," said Ellen.

Forrest smiled. "I've had little to do but think about it."

"But why the interest?" she asked him.

"Just think of me as an infernal meddler," he said.

Ellen bit her lip in disbelief.

"Well, I am," he said with a laugh. "I'm the biggest meddler of all
time. Now, let's get to work. We've a week."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ellen Haynes nodded. She did not know what to make of Jim Forrest. Here
on cold Ganymede he had a comfortable brick building that was built
along the lines of a good sized mansion. Though the cold and the winds
beat at the outside with an ammoniac odor, inside of the building it
was warm and pleasantly filled with the smell of a Terran garden.

Jim Forrest, she knew, was wealthy. But the word 'wealth' had a world
of meanings. After Ellen had seen the building and had been shown the
inside--part of it anyway--she was beginning to understand just how
wealthy the man must be.

She had wondered about her relations with this strange man until he
showed her a small suite of rooms that he said were to be hers. That
in itself was comforting but it posed a greater question as to his
character. For the apartment was not devoid of the signs of human
occupancy--feminine occupancy--also young feminine occupancy.

There were the collections of scents and cosmetics and silks that
are unmistakably those of a young, desirable woman. The apartment
was more luxurious than any that Ellen Haynes had ever known and,
though she felt distaste at the idea of using another woman's things,
she found them all cleaned and properly pressed. The cosmetics were
enigmatic--some of them looked used and some of them had their original
labels and seals intact. The used-appearing ones, on the other hand,
bore the stamp of the immaculate. They were unmarred, neither smudges
nor fingermarks.

The clothing was a passable fit for Ellen Haynes--not perfect, as were
her own clothes, but passable.

Ellen wondered. She wondered even more as he led her into what would
have been the grand ballroom of the mansion-design and found it to be
fitted as a physical laboratory. She looked around at the vastness and
shuddered slightly at the unpeopled silence of the great house.

"Doesn't the lack of company get you down?" she asked.

"Seldom does," he smiled. "Besides, it is seldom this unpopulated. I've
seen the day when the place was positively bulging with people. I hope
to return to that happy state soon."

"But that suite you gave me...."

"That's been used, but not recently."

"By whom?" she persisted.

"By several persons," he said noncommittally. He smiled inwardly,
knowing what she wondered about. He let her go on thinking mostly
because it made no difference and it kept her from brooding on the
matter of her father's discovery of Zonium and the things that it
implied.

"What are you going to do?" she asked.

"I'm going to make a few tests," he said. "This rock has got to be
destroyed. Not just thrown away or buried, but completely destroyed.
Disintegrated."

"In what way?" she asked.

"I'm going to try bombarding it with neutrons," he said. "The easiest
way, of course, is to transmute it."

"Where will you get a neutron-supply?" she asked.

"I haven't got a uranium pile," he said unhappily. "But I have got
a healthy cyclotron here. We bombard beryllium with deuterons and
place the zonium in the resulting output. You see, that is one of
the Be^9 (dn) B^{10} reactions, yielding a goodly spread of neutrons
with energies from zero to nine million electron volts. I'd try other
particles, but the neutron transmutation is always best."

He recalled Turner briefly and smiled. They had a sixty hour start on
the Guardsman at least and the vectors of travel made it almost certain
that they had a full week before Turner could get away and come after
them in a new ship.

He did not believe that Turner could break out and he thought that if
he did, the Guardsman would repair to Mars anyway to get himself a new
Guardship. There was little sense in a Guardsman trying to fight an
armed Guardship in Jim Forrest's unarmed sports cruiser.




                               CHAPTER V

                             _Revelation_


Unfortunately for Jim Forrest his mansion was not equipped with space
radar and so the only indication of the arrival of Jack Turner was
given in the control room of Turner's captured ship. Turner landed in
Forrest's ship beside his own and viewed the huge mansion wonderingly.

Then, shrugging, Captain Turner checked his blaster, appropriated from
Forrest's supply in the pilot room, and stepped to the front door of
the mansion.

He set the blaster against the doorlock and drilled it once, silently
but effectively. He pushed the door open and went in on silent feet. He
prowled the place quietly, eventually coming to the laboratory. To find
that, after the scene of carpeted floors and all of the myriad things
that could be expected in this mansion were it upon Terra, made Turner
blink. Incongruity followed incongruity--first this definitely lived-in
house on a barren place like Ganymede, then this magnificent laboratory
stuck right in what should have been a ballroom.

What manner of man was Jim Forrest?

He stepped into the room, and saw the opened stairway to the cellar--a
heck of a place for such, he thought. He went down and saw the
cyclotron and it stopped him with sheer wonder. He saw Jim Forrest and
Ellen Haynes, busily engaged in working over the cyclotron-target.

He lifted the blaster and said, "Up with 'em!"

They turned and blinked.

Then Forrest smiled.

"Well," he said in amusement. "Now the picture is complete! We have
three factions present. One that wants to make zonium work. One who
wants to destroy it utterly. One who wants it to sit in a laboratory
case and moulder. Now what, Captain Turner?"

"You are my prisoners," he stated flatly. "You, Jim Forrest, are now
accused of attempting to experiment on government property as well as
stealing it."

"I intend to destroy it," said Forrest flatly.

"I intend to stop you," said Turner sharply. "And I've had enough
foolishness!"

Ellen smiled. She turned, picked up the zonium crystal and handed it to
Turner.

"Jack," she said softly, "I know what it will do now."

Captain Turner of the Space Guard smiled bitterly. "Well," he said,
"what will it do?"

"It will withstand the blaster beam," said Ellen Haynes.

"I don't believe it," said Turner.

She placed the cube on a metal table and motioned for him to drill it.
Turner shrugged.

"No," he said, "I'll not destroy government property."

"But you won't," she said.

"There are other things that will withstand the blast," said Turner.
"Less difficult elements to make than zonium."

Forrest smiled. "Go ahead and fire," he said. "You'll hurt nothing."

[Illustration: Forrest smiled. "Go ahead and fire," he said. "You'll
hurt nothing!"]

Doubtfully Turner lifted the weapon. Neither of them would have told
him to do so if it were not true. Both of them had been willing to
steal to get it. They'd not see it destroyed, for Turner did not
believe Forrest's statement to the effect that he intended to destroy
it.

He pressed the trigger of his blaster and--

Nothing happened!

He turned the weapon away from the crystal, pointed it down into the
concrete floor and tried again.

Nothing happened!

"What is this?" he asked, checking the weapon. It was charged. It
should have worked.

"This," smiled Jim Forrest, "happens to be one place in the Solar
System where no blaster will fire. I have an anti-radiation field
working in here that selectively prevents blaster output. Your blaster
beam will just not propagate here."

"There's no such field known," said Turner stolidly.

Forrest smiled, went to the wall and pressed a button. "Now try it," he
said.

Turner blasted the floor and it worked, but violently. Forrest then
released the button. "So," said Forrest, "we need not fear your weapon,
Turner. Now, may I explain?"

"Do so."

       *       *       *       *       *

Forrest smiled genially. "Come on up to the living room," he said.
"It's a long story and we might as well be comfortable. I promise that
there will be no violence. I've worked rather hard to see that this
identical situation obtained. I'll not spoil it now!"

Wondering, they followed Forrest, who had taken over the leadership
again. Forrest mixed a drink at the serviette and handed one to each
of them. He opened cigarette boxes on the coffee table before the sofa
upon which Ellen and Turner were sitting. He turned to the fireplace
and touched a button. The logs flickered.

"Artificial," he said unhappily. "I hope some day to go where I can
have a real fireplace but everything that goes up the chimney as air
must be replaced from somewhere, since we couldn't use Ganymedian air
very long without developing a vicious case of bronchitis. But it looks
pleasant anyway.

"Zonium," said Forrest, "is a rarity. Do you know where the elements of
the universe come from?"

"Do you?" asked Ellen skeptically.

"According to established theory," replied Forrest, "the sun is running
due to the so-called Solar Phoenix. Carbon is forced to combine
atomically with hydrogen under the pressure-temperature conditions of
the sun, releasing a gamma quantum, and producing nitrogen thirteen
which is unstable and by ejecting a positron returns to carbon thirteen.

"Carbon thirteen takes on another hydrogen, becoming nitrogen fourteen,
which is stable. Nitrogen takes on hydrogen, becoming oxygen fifteen,
which ejects a positron and becomes nitrogen fifteen. Another hydrogen
makes it oxygen sixteen, which is stable excepting in the solar
conditions, where it ejects an alpha particle and reverts back to
carbon again, ready to go through the same process.

"Sometimes the oxygen does not break down but takes on another hydrogen
again, becoming fluorine seventeen, which breaks down by positron
ejection to oxygen seventeen--and another hydrogen brings it up to
fluorine eighteen, back to oxygen eighteen and up to stable fluorine
nineteen. You can go up and back, adding hydrogen, to make every known
element.

"The curve of elemental stability peaks across iron. Elements lower
than iron are more easily built up and elements above iron are more
easily broken down. The whole roster of natural elements is accepted as
being built by offshoots of the Solar Phoenix."

"And zonium?" asked Turner.

"The ability of zonium to withstand the blaster beam," said Forrest,
"is due to the fact that zonium is really an element from another
universe!"

"Another universe?" exploded Ellen Haynes.

"Right," he said. "A universe which operates differently from our own
but which produces elements fundamentally constructed of the standard
atomic particles of energy, which are basic. Zonium will not combine
chemically with any Terran element. Its physical effects are outrageous
compared with even the transuranic elements which carry the Solar
Phoenix to the extremes far above uranium."

Forrest went on to explain in detail the effects of zonium on the
sun. "Zonium came into being by unhappy accident," he said. "Only the
furious energy of transmutation can breach the dividing energy-levels
between the universes of the Cosmos. It takes place under high
magnetic, electric, and optical conditions.

"These effects took place, according to my theory, at a coincidental
instant when the element under bombardment was adjacent in space-time
with a small crystal of zonium in the other universe.

"Using that for a pattern, this crystal of zonium came into being, was
measured and accepted as a certain element in the scale. The space
occupied by zonium on the periodic chart is fillable, but the metal
that will be made will not be zonium like this crystal.

"Any more zonium of this type must have a splinter of this rock for a
matrix to start the peculiar intra-atomic structure that gives zonium
its bizarre properties.

"Once this is destroyed, as it must be, it can be made again only by
extreme happenstance, for the possibility of conjacent matter between
the two universes is no less a probability than possible collisions
between--not suns in the galaxy but the galaxies themselves!"

"But why couldn't all this be explained?" demanded Turner. "It seems to
have entailed a large amount of mad galloping."

       *       *       *       *       *

Forrest smiled.

"You two people are very much involved," he said. "You are attracted
to one another, which is itself good. Yet your viewpoints differed
greatly. So long as the zonium existed you could not but let it
mar your love. Ellen felt deprived of possible benefits. Jack was
a symbol of that which barred Ellen and Ellen was a symbol of that
which resented everything that Captain Turner of the Space Guard held
honorable.

"It is certain that the future existence of Sol depends upon the
destruction of this crystal. A stasis existed during all the years of
its dust-collecting stay in the laboratory, a stasis that merely was a
threat to the future. For destruction must be complete!

"Supposing I merely hurled the thing into space at a velocity high
enough to send it, eventually, into the gravitational grasp of some
distant star. A nova would result--a nova with the Solar Phoenix gone
wild and with a sample of zonium upon which to build uncounted tons
of more zonium, which in explosion would be hurled throughout the
universe! A chain-fission extending to every star in the universe,
given time!

"Where then," he asked loftily, "would the hoped-for Grand Galactic
Civilization be? Yes, I am planning on fifty million galactic years,
with Sol grown cold and dead ere man is united throughout the universe.
It must have its chance!"

"But why the penny's worth of plotting?" asked Turner.

"I had to do that which would bring you two together," smiled Forrest.
"The silent inert threat of zonium in the laboratory was bad enough but
stabilized. I could watch that. Knowing that Ellen Haynes would try to
take it eventually, I merely spent my time keeping tabs on the young
and attractive lady until she swiped it. Then I took it, knowing that
you were on the trail.

"I was a little surprised to find Ellen in my spaceship but it saved
me the trouble of collecting her at a later date. I anticipated that
you would arrive and that I could cope with you, Turner. Well, my
machinations over that incident went to pieces and I planned then upon
the fact that Ellen was available.

"So I spent the intervening time explaining to her just exactly how
I knew the dangers of zonium. I knew also that you'd be arriving but
I didn't know how soon. I've still to destroy that rock, you know.
But now that I've shown Ellen and explained to you, your psychopathic
animosity toward one another's principles is gone.

"By stealing the rock from Ellen and giving you the chance to offer her
a means of absolution I showed her your interest. By preventing her
experimentation when she took off with it I prevented disaster.

"Instead of zonium, Guardsman, I offer you the anti-propagation field.
Here are notes--you and Ellen take them and expand them so that the
invention will be yours.

"And now," he said, "I'm going downstairs again and blast this zonium
rock into something inert."

"And we?"

Forrest laughed. "You are to go back and explain your deputization of
Ellen Haynes and my theft and destruction of the zonium block. Also,"
he grinned, "you two have been racing all over the system together.
You'd better marry the wench, Turner, and save her good name."

"Will you, Ellen?" asked the Captain.

She nodded vehemently but her gaze was on Jim Forrest.

"But you, Jim," she said. "They'll be hounding you from here on."

"Oh me? I'm a lawbreaker," he said. "I'll escape easily."

"How?"

"Easily," he said. "I'll be out of here in time. Just give me time!"

He grinned and insisted that they leave at once. He escorted them,
walking between them to the Guardship. He shook hands with Turner and
congratulated him. He turned to Ellen Haynes and, with a half-smiling,
half-serious expression, bent forward and kissed her lightly on the
lips.

"Goodbye--Grandmother," he laughed.

He shoved her inside the spacelock and snapped the starting switch on
the frame of the door. The lock clanged shut.

"_Grandmother!_" exploded Ellen. "What did he mean by that?"

Jack Turner had a flash of inspiration. "He said he would escape--in
time," he muttered slowly. "The greatest meddler in all time. But look,
Ellen, his name is Forrest, not Turner."

"Funny man," she said dreamily, "Egotist. Ever give thought to the idea
that your--our--firstborn might be a girl?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IN THE CARDS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
