The Project Gutenberg eBook of To the sons of tomorrow, by Irving Cox

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: To the sons of tomorrow

Author: Irving Cox

Illustrator: Beecham

Release Date: July 19, 2022 [eBook #68565]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO THE SONS OF TOMORROW ***





                        TO THE SONS OF TOMORROW

                          BY IRVING COX, JR.

                        ILLUSTRATED BY BEECHAM

         The _Olympus_ could never return to her home planet;
          her crew was destined to live out their lives among
         the savages of this new planet. But savages could be
          weaned from their superstitions and set on the road
            to knowledge, Theusaman thought. Or could they?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Rocket Stories, July 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Baiel had always shown me the degree of respect prescribed in the Space
Code. Aboard the _Olympus_ we clashed only once, and that was when I
ordered the emergency landing.

"You've no right to risk it, Captain Theusaman," he protested.

"We can't do anything else," I answered. "We're ninety-three million
light years away from the Earth, and twenty-five outside the patrol
area."

"Sir, this star sector is totally new to us!" Baiel was standing by
the control panel, a tall, thin man in his early thirties. His face
was hollowly angular, sun-bronzed and capped with a brush of thick,
black hair. He looked away from the sight dome and I saw bitterness
and anger blazing in his blue eyes. "This is an exploratory expedition,
Captain Theusaman. We were sent out to record the conditions beyond the
periphery of the Earth charts, and it's vitally important for us to
return with the data."

"I'm aware of that, Baiel."

"Then face the facts. We've blown our dorsal tubes and lost our
emergency fuel. Unless we restock with fissionable material, we've no
chance of getting back to Earth. You believe we can restock on that
unknown planet out there, but--"

"I know we can. I've seen the spectroanalysis; it doesn't lie."

"Not in the statement of data. But--with the best of intentions--a
man can lie in the generalization he draws from the data. The
spectroanalysis tells us that planet out there has an atmosphere like
ours. It tells us there's an abundance of fissionable material in the
mineral chemistry. But suppose it can't be recovered with any of the
machines we have aboard? If we land, we'll have no chance of rising
again."

"It's a necessary risk."

"No, Captain Theusaman! We have almost enough energy in our functioning
tubes to reach the outer fringe of the patrol area. From there we'd
be close enough to beam an emergency call back to Earth. One of the
patrols might pick it up in time to--"

"Might," I snapped. "I'm glad you recognize that as a possibility,
Baiel."

"Even if none of us survives, our data will still be there; sooner or
later an Earth ship would find the _Olympus_."

"You risk more than I do, Baiel."

"But our information would be saved for the scientific processors."

"I prefer to save the men. We know they can live on that planet, even
if we find no fissionable material. The issue is settled."

"There's one other consideration, Captain Theusaman. With our dorsal
tubes gone, we can't maneuver. Even you can understand, sir, that a
crash-landing--"

"I've given the orders, Baiel. Will you execute them, or must I have
you cabinized for insubordination?"

"Very well, sir."

He departed without saluting.

Baiel was right, on both counts. I knew there was a chance he might be.
Yet I had made emergency landings before. Nothing had ever gone wrong.

This time it did. As soon as we nosed into the stratosphere we were in
trouble. The _Olympus_ angled down too sharply. The gyrometers failed,
since they were engineered to make use of the compensating drive from
the dorsal tubes. I tried to bring the ship up into the freedom of
space again, but the best I could manage was a slow, corkscrew dive
toward the unknown planet.

As we spun through the cloud wreath, I studied the globe carefully.
Within limits, I could still select the place where I wanted to land.
The planet was capped at both poles by gleaming ice fields which spread
down over the sphere like giant hands. Only a narrow equatorial band
was free of ice. The landing site I chose was a wooded area at the edge
of the glacier. The nearby ridge of jagged mountains suggested volcanic
action, and the possible presence of the fissionable metals we wanted.

We crash-landed at the base of the glacier, skipping over the ragged
ice until the bow caught and shattered in a deep ice gorge. The safety
stabilizers functioned in all the cabins that were not pierced by
ice. Our heaviest casualties were among the tube-room crew and the
astrographers. Only one of the scientists survived. I ordered station
formation on the frozen meadow outside the ship. Baiel bawled out the
roster, while I ticked off the names of the survivors: forty crewmen,
none seriously wounded; one scientist, fatally hurt; and fifteen of the
female staff of astrographical clerks. Counting Baiel and myself, we
numbered fifty-eight.

As the last of the names was read off, we stood for a moment shivering
in the icy wind. Slowly Baiel looked up from the ship's roll and let
his blue eyes move along the buckled hulk of the _Olympus_. Then he
glanced at me, and the set of his jaw was as coldly emotionless as the
ice bank behind him.

"Have you any further orders to give, Captain Theusaman?" His tone
was frankly insolent. I clenched my fists, but checked the response
I might have made. Baiel and I were the only Space Officers with the
expedition; any difference between us would be disastrous.

"Turn all hands into the stern cabins," I said, "and break out the
landing gear. It'll keep us warm. Detail five men to check on the
damage, and have them report to me."

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later Baiel and I stood at the control panel reading through
the list of damages. Remarkably little had happened--nothing, at least,
that we could not repair with material we had at hand. We organized all
survivors into repair crews of five each; even the women were given
assignments.

Baiel and I made preliminary soil tests for fissionable metals. The
computer prognosis from such highly selective data is never infallible,
but the probable degree of error is no more than .0006. Over a period
of two hours we made five tests, with the same results. There was
fissionable matter on the planet--no doubt of that--but it was locked
in a chemical combination we could not release without building a giant
separation plant such as we used on Earth.

"Our data is too limited if we sample so close to the ship," I told
Baiel.

"Possibly." There was a long pause before he added the prescribed,
"sir."

I nodded toward the hill sloping away from the glacier toward a forest
of tangled pines. "We'll make another test down there." With a shrug,
Baiel followed after me obediently.

Three miles from the _Olympus_, in a thick grove of trees, we found
the man. Naked, he lay bound over a heap of boulders, his dead eyes
staring up at the sky. A gash had been torn in his chest and his blood
had spilled out over chunks of glacial ice arranged in a crude pyramid
beside him.

To both of us, the sight of a man and the thing it implied was vaguely
terrifying. For almost five centuries expeditions of Earthmen had
explored the skies, slowly reaching beyond our own solar system toward
the stars. Where the atmosphere was hospitable, we had built thriving
colonies. But nowhere had we found a race of people like ourselves. The
planets had been so consistently untenanted that we had grown to expect
nothing else.

Now here, on this unknown world, twenty-five million light years
beyond the periphery of the Earth patrols--here we found men, men like
ourselves!

Baiel cut the thongs and lifted the rigid body off the pile of rock.
"If you don't mind, Captain," he said, "I'd like to examine--this--up
in the ship lab. Since there's a chance--just a chance, sir"--His
sarcasm was unmistakable, "--that we'll be staying here, I want to know
what we're up against."

Late that night, while the rest of the expedition slept, Baiel and I
carried the body into the laboratory. Baiel performed a thoroughgoing,
workman-like autopsy. It was impossible not to admire his efficiency
and skill. We were momentarily united in the rising excitement of
mutual curiosity.

"There's a fascinating structural similarity to our own," Baiel
pointed out. "Identical organs; identical blood composition. All
the differences are minor--a smaller brain case, with a retreating
forehead, and pronounced orbital ridges. And look at those teeth and
the chinless jaw!"

"In a way, it suggests Bonn's Hypothesis," I said.

"Aubrey Bonn? Why, he's the laughing stock of the Anthropological
Academy. We've never found a whisper of evidence to suggest a basis for
his Hypothesis."

"How could we? There have never been any people on any of the planets
we've explored."

Baiel dropped his scalpel and stepped back from the table, kneading
his chin thoughtfully. "Bonn said that an identical chemistry and
atmosphere, plus identical time phase, would produce an identical
chronology of the species. This planet may do that. It should have
been obvious when we had the negative tests for fissionable material.
The Earth itself is the only planetary body we know where we've had to
build separation plants to recover the metal."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But, according to Bonn's Hypothesis, the resemblance should be exact."
With disgust, I glanced at the torn corpse on the table. "None of us
has an idiot's skull like that."

"We may have had once, Captain. You're forgetting the time phase.
This planet is the Earth as it was millennia in the past, in the age
of the great glaciers. The ice cap here has obviously reached its
maximum penetration. It will begin to recede now, decade by decade,
and civilization will slowly take root where now there is nothing but
primitive savagery."

"Civilization, out of that brain, Baiel?"

He smiled at the ape-face of the corpse. "Not that, but the one that
comes after. Perhaps the new man will evolve, Captain." Baiel licked
his lips thoughtfully. "Or perhaps he will be created."

"I don't think I quite follow--"

"Created by the gods!" Laughing, Baiel ripped off his laboratory jacket
and flung it over the corpse. "I think, Captain, that we shouldn't tell
the others about him quite yet. You and I have some investigating to do
first."

The next morning Baiel called me into the control room. When the door
was shut, he turned up the viewscreen. By adjusting the angle of the
beam, he had focused the projection upon the _Olympus_ and the frozen
terrain surrounding the ship in a ten mile radius.

The ship lay on a tilted, empty meadow above a forest of pines.
Five miles away a limestone cliff rose out of the forest. A crude,
semicircular clearing was beneath the cliff and on it we saw a tribe
of men and women gathered around a fire built at the mouth of a cave.
Baiel turned up a section enlargement and we studied the men carefully.
There was no doubt that they were the counterparts of the corpse lying
in the laboratory of the _Olympus_.

That same morning Baiel and I made our first visit to the village.
Fortunately we went armed, for they received us with violent hostility,
attempting to drive us away with a volley of spears.

A peculiar greeting from a people we now understand to be cordial and
open in their friendship! But their motivation was entirely logical.
Faced by a diminishing source of food, the tribe saw every stranger as
a potential threat to tribal survival.

Baiel and I used our Haydens to curb their belligerence. The sight
of red flame blasting their spears into dust awed them into a sullen
kind of submission. But it was not until our second visit, when we
took them a gift of bear meat, that we began to make any progress in
communication.

We watched curiously while the tribe wolfed the meat, crudely searing
it over an open fire. As hungry as they obviously were, each of them
nonetheless set aside a liberal portion which was later taken to
a grizzled old man who never moved from the mouth of the cave. In
response to our gestures, they made it clear to us that the old man was
their equivalent of high priest. He apparently commanded the wind and
the sun, and he had some sort of a terrifying blood relationship with
the glacier.

Comfortably fed, the tribe became cordial. Baiel and I had found a
touchstone. Whenever we visited the village after that, we always
took them food. In less than a week we knew their dialect. It was a
very small vocabulary, built chiefly of denotative symbols. Baiel
concentrated his attention upon the high priest; I stayed with the
tribal Chief.

It was a tactical error on my part, since Baiel already knew what he
intended to do. I did not. I wasn't aware, then, that the conflict
between us had already begun.

       *       *       *       *       *

As our degree of communication improved, the various members of the
tribe shyly began to express curiosity about us. Our Haydens aroused
no interest, except for a vague and superstitious awe. The mechanism
of the weapon was entirely beyond their comprehension; they wrote it
off as a kind of magic closely allied to the mysteries practiced by
their priest. Our garments were of greater significance. The tribe was
irresistibly drawn to caress the sleek material, to hold it against
their cheeks and chatter excitedly over its unexpected warmth.

Once, as we sat in a circle around the fire, the Chief asked me the
name of our tribe.

"We are Earthmen."

"The Earth tribe? I do not know it."

"It is not a tribe, but a place." I picked up a handful of soil. "This
is earth to you--everything that you see around you. We came from
another place like this, a place in the sky."

They stared at me blankly. Then one of the young hunters scooped up
soil, as I had, and said brightly, "Earth. Yes, your name for the
hunting ground. Earth! It is a good name."

"No. We are Earthmen!"

"Yes, Earthmen--all of us. Not beasts that howl by night and haunt the
forest trails. Men. We are men. But also we have a tribe."

I tried to make my explanation more explicit. "We came here in a sky
carrier which is named the _Olympus_. It rests now up by the great ice
wall. There are others like us, too, who may--" I stopped, because one
by one they were rising and moving away from me.

"You are wrong!" the Chief cried. "Your tribe cannot live by the
glacier, on the tabooed ground!"

As he mentioned the name, it threw the whole tribe into a panic.
Nothing I could say would undo their rising fear. They shrank from
me, running into the dark recesses of the cave. Eventually the high
priest--with Baiel standing beside him--restored order by crying shrill
prayers up at his brother, the glacier. Fortunately, the harm I had
done did not seem to call for the drastic remedy of human sacrifice.

After the tumult had passed, the Chief said to me, "It was a cruel
thing to say, Seus-man." (The tribe always had trouble pronouncing my
name; sometimes they would drop whole syllables from it.)

"On my word, it was not meant so," I replied. After a silence, I asked
cautiously, "Suppose it had been true?"

"It may not be. The brother glacier is a great threat to us all. He is
not a friend. In my time and in the time of my father before me, the
ice has always moved closer to us, everywhere destroying more and more
of our hunting ground."

"Can your people not move away from it, into better land?"

"We have, as far as we dare. Beyond the forest the ground is taboo.
There the sun god strikes fire from the mountain tops, to warn us away
from his domain."

"Is there no land on the other side of the fire mountains?"

"The hunting ground of the dead. It is not for us, the living."

When Baiel and I returned at dusk to the _Olympus_, I walked
thoughtfully through the swirling snow, saying very little. For the
first time I faced, without regret, the fact that we were doomed
to live out our lives on this frozen, nameless world. I had found a
purpose, and it seemed good.

This friendly, impoverished tribe was man himself, as he had been
on the Earth in the remote darkness of our own uncharted past--man,
clinging precariously to a hard-won savagery, plagued by ice and wind,
threatened by a vanishing supply of food.

To the nearly insurmountable problems set by nature, this tribe
had added one final prison of their own creation, the taboos and
superstitions that penned them fast on the brink of the glacier. As
things stood, the tribe would not survive. To become men as we were,
they had to be freed of the weight of the gods, freed of superstition
so they could deal with the facts of reality. With our help the tribe
might eventually learn how to create a civilization. Without it, they
were doomed.

Hesitantly I explained myself to Baiel.

"Of course," he said. "It's obvious. We can't allow nature to forget
the proper chronology of the species, can we?"

"It will be slow work, but--"

"But not impossible. Their life span averages less than thirty years;
ours exceeds a century. That's time enough."

He agreed with me at once and, I think, he was entirely sincere. We
were simply using the same words to express two totally opposed ideas.
Neither of us, I'm sure, was aware of the ambiguity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The need for decision came immediately. That night the power failed in
the _Olympus_ and the winter cold settled slowly into the cabins. The
residue of fuel energy left in the tanks was not enough to power the
heating grids, and our portable solar heaters were ineffectual in the
cavernous space of our cabins. Our food tanks froze over; the producing
cultures died. Baiel and I built an open furnace in the control room,
and the expedition crowded there around the fire.

Baiel and I had already told them about the primitive village;
the expedition had learned the tribal tongue as we brought the
knowledge back to the _Olympus_. Now, for the first time, I told them
frankly that we were never going to leave the planet. Hand-picked,
psycho-processed personnel, the expedition adjusted readily to the
new reality. Without the benefits of the machines of our earthly
civilization, we were faced with extreme hardships on such an
unfriendly world. Our only sound course was to join the village tribe
and survive through mutual efforts.

The following morning I went to the Chief to propose the merger. He
refused until I offered to guarantee a food supply for both groups.
It was a safe enough promise. We had the Haydens and enough energized
rounds to kill anything that walked the forest, for at least a year or
more. I counted heavily on the fact that, within that period, we would
be able to unhinge the paralyzing weight of tribal gods and taboos. The
tribe could then be encouraged to migrate into a more fertile area.

The business of negotiation was concluded in less than an hour. But the
elaborate ceremony of union lasted for two days. It was not a frequent
occurrence, and yet tribes had occasionally united in the past. There
was, therefore, a rigid body of custom proscribing the form; it was
interpreted entirely by the priest.

Since I symbolized the chief of the incoming tribe, I was expected
to spend the first night in the village alone, while the rest of the
expedition shivered around the improvised fire in the _Olympus_. The
Chief sealed me in tribal brotherhood by the gift of his daughter.
Dayhan was shy, filthy, repulsive with the stench of the animal skins
she wore. Lice ran in her matted hair and grime streaked her cheeks.
She smiled at me with an idiot's grin.

Yet I went willingly with Dayhan to the dark recess of the cave,
which was traditionally reserved to the new wedded. It was painfully
obvious that the success of my negotiations depended upon our mating.
I stomached my revulsion in silence. In the morning, when Dayhan first
addressed me publically as "My Lord," the tribe was satisfied.

Throughout the day the ceremony became general, climaxed by the
symbolic mingling of blood. To satisfy custom, each member of the
expedition--except for the women--was paired with a tribesman of equal
status. Curiously, they seemed to accept Baiel as our high priest. With
decided misgiving, I watched while he complacently established himself
in the priest's portion of the cave.

At sundown the ceremony ended. The old priest mounted a granite
pedestal erected near the fire. Raising his long arms to the sky, he
screamed guttural syllables at the gathering darkness. As the sun
tinged the distant glacial wall with scarlet, the priest looked down
upon the throng and proclaimed the need for sacrifice to brother
glacier.

The members of our expedition reacted with shocked silence, but the
primitive tribe matter-of-factly went through the deadly lottery. The
chosen hunter moved out toward the sacrificial grove, followed by the
priest who held his blade naked in his hand.

I cried reason at them, to hold them back. But the tribe neither heard
nor comprehended. With glazing eyes they were lost in the terrifying
ecstacy of tradition. Satisfy brother glacier, and the village would be
safe.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the grove Baiel suddenly joined the priest. They whispered together
for a moment. Then Baiel raised his arms and spoke.

"Wait! We bring the tribe the new gods of the sun. Our gods are
stronger than brother glacier. Let them speak to the ice, and no life
need be given."

"Let the new gods satisfy the old!" the tribal priest echoed.

His statement gave Baiel's innovation the stamp of approval. The tribe
began to chant a sing-song thanksgiving. Baiel, like the priest,
raised his arms and shouted gibberish which they took as prayer. When
he lowered his hand, he pointed at the pile of rock in the grove. Red
flame flashed. The stones dissolved. The surrounding ice wasted into a
pool of water, slowly seeping into the blackened earth.

It was a simple enough trick. Baiel had concealed a Hayden in his
sleeve. But it impressed the tribe. They sang their exaltation,
clapping hands on the broad shoulders of the young hunter who had been
spared.

Baiel joined me as we walked back to the village.

"I knew something had to be done, Captain Theusaman," he explained.
"Fortunately, my idea worked."

"It's wrong, Baiel; all wrong."

"I saved the man, didn't I?"

"By substituting new gods for theirs. We want to free them, Baiel."

"Is there any other way to do it?"

"By teaching them the truth. By destroying their burden of gods and
superstitions--not by creating more."

This amused him and he laughed. I thought his reaction was odd, but I
still misinterpreted it.

For the next two months I became more and more involved in helping the
tribe find its way toward civilization. We could not impose anything
remotely like our Earth culture. The answer to the problem, without
the technique for reaching the solution, would be meaningless. But in
small things, like the brief spring thaws that slowly ate away their
planet-capping glacier, we could erode and destroy their shell of
savagery.

Because of its application to my own situation with Dayhan, the first
teaching I undertook was cleanliness. On the Earth it is an old joke
that, when we build, we plan the bathing facilities first; our space
ships are notably awkward to maneuver because we include so many
elaborate baths. To us, filth equates with savagery. Cleanliness was
a concept which the tribe quickly adopted and understood, because the
reward was both visible and immediate.

We erected stone culverts above the fire, melting chunks of ice and
channeling the warm water into a stone pool built inside the cave.
Following the example set by the expedition, the tribe shortly took to
daily bathing as a matter of course. We taught them to scrape the filth
from their skins, to comb the lice out of their hair.

I was amazed--and enormously pleased--with the physical change a bath
brought in Dayhan. Her stringy hair took on a golden luster. Her dirty
skin softened and color came slowly into her yellow cheeks. The running
sores dried, caked, and disappeared. Instinctively she came to be aware
of her potential loveliness. She began to experiment with braiding
her hair in various ways over her slanting skull. Once I found her
trying sprigs of greenery in the knot and studying the effect in her
reflection in the bathing pool.

The cave was always warm, particularly when the wind and snow howled
through the village; but it was uncomfortably crowded. Because the fire
was built at the mouth of the cave, the oxygen inside was inadequate.
We never slept through a night without feeling a nagging nausea from
the foul air we breathed.

Therefore, as soon as the tribe understood how the stone culvert had
been built, we proposed building stone cabins. So rapidly had they
learned that most of the labor was performed by the tribe. The Earth
people merely advised and suggested. And we did very little of that,
allowing them a great deal of trial and error experimentation.

It was the happiest time of our merger with the tribe. Everyone worked,
and worked in unison. I had never made any explanation of my point of
view to the other members of the expedition. I hadn't considered it
necessary. No Earthman was certified for space travel unless he had
first been successfully psycho-processed. In effect, that meant that
we took a scientific rather than an emotional view of any given set of
data. Since each of us was faced with an identical pattern of facts, I
assumed that each of us would approximate the same generalization.

To a degree, that happened. We all realized the need to teach the
tribe; no one proposed bringing machines from the _Olympus_ to give the
savages the products of our culture without their specifics. One by one
members of the expedition followed my lead and mated with the women of
the tribe.

Only our own women--the fifteen astrographical clerks--and half a dozen
men held off. I failed to perceive the significance until it was too
late. The six men were Baiel's closest friends; each of them had spent
at least a year at the Academy, while the rest of us were Rankers,
traditionally considered their inferiors. And the women, being clerks
rather than crewmen, had not been psycho-processed.

The breach into factions came when our village of stone huts was
completed. We were faced with the problem of heating. I wanted the
solution to be worked out by the tribe without our help. Slowly they
made progress in their efforts to discover how to build fires within
the huts without filling the rooms with smoke. They had just discovered
how to pierce the roofs with chimneys when I awoke, one morning, to
find that Baiel had presented them with a pat answer to the problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the night he had stealthily returned to the _Olympus_ with four
of his men. They had brought back to the village a dozen solar heaters.
Before I was awake, he had presented the heaters to the tribe as gifts
of the sun god.

In wonder the tribe gathered around the tiny machines, holding out
their hands to feel the mysterious warmth. Then they thronged at
Baiel's feet as he stood on the rock pedestal above the village fire.
They swayed and chanted their prayers which had once been reserved
solely for the majesty of brother glacier.

As I approached, Baiel began to address them.

"The sun god sends you these because of your obedience to his ways.
Through me--through Baiel, the high priest--he makes you promise of
even greater gifts than this, if your faith continues."

The tribal chanting arose in ecstacy. The old priest knelt at Baiel's
feet, offering up a chunk of glacial ice in token of brother glacier's
submission.

"There is one all-powerful god!" Baiel cried. "Only one. And I, Baiel,
I am his priest."

"All-powerful; the only one," the villagers responded.

It was at that point that I intervened. The tribe stared at me in
bewilderment. I took one of the heaters and dismantled it.

"This was made by men," I explained. "By men like yourselves. See, this
is no more than a substance like the hard veins of metal you find in
your rocks. In time you can learn to make these as we do."

For a quarter of an hour I talked, patiently repeating and
demonstrating the facts. But still their eyes were glazed with
bewilderment and the ghosts of hidden fears. Since they had no
understanding of the processing of ore, how could I explain away the
appearance of the supernatural? Even when I disassembled the machine, I
proved nothing except that I was tinged with godhood myself.

Baiel stood smirking, saying nothing. When I turned on him in anger, he
said quietly:

"Earthmen understand reason, Theusaman." It was the first time he had
dropped my title, and he did so intentionally. "These animals--this
amusing burlesque of real men--I'm afraid you ask too much of them."

"I ask nothing but their right to survive and evolve, as we did."

"But they can't. Haven't you learned that yet?"

Still smiling, he slid off the pile of rock and went into the cave. I
followed him. One by one, the members of the expedition gathered around
us. Slowly fifteen women and six men grouped themselves behind Baiel.
The rest of the Earthmen were with me. Baiel was outnumbered and most
of his people were unarmed, but they faced us with a peculiarly firm
kind of confidence.

"I think it's time we had an understanding," I said. "I'm still in
command here, Baiel, and--"

"In command? Of a ship that will never fly again, and an expedition
that can never return to Earth? In another ten years, Theusaman, the
glacier will have moved over the _Olympus_. It will be ground into
dust."

"That's hardly the point."

"It writes finale to the past. It means this planet is ours--it must
be--whether we want it or not."

"Ours, and theirs, Baiel."

He threw back his head and laughed. "In the Academy, Theusaman,
we're taught to face reality, not to romanticize it. This tribe is
semi-human, if you like; I'm charitable enough to grant that. But they
aren't men, any more than the primitive species on the Earth were men.
Observe the skull of your--your bride, if you will; observe the idiocy
in her vacant eyes; observe--"

"This is man as he was, Baiel! You pointed that out to me yourself."

       *       *       *       *       *

"On the contrary, I was simply discussing the Bonn Hypothesis. I never
said I believed it. On the Earth, Theusaman, before true man appeared,
nature created a number of semi-men--homo-failures, you might say.
They weren't men; they grew to the limits of their physical potential,
but they never achieved human rationality. At the end of the Earth's
ice age, the continents were widely populated by the last of nature's
failures. Then, abruptly--we've never known where he originated, or
how--man himself came on the scene. Overnight he wiped out the half-men
and took over the planet. Man has come here, now, Theusaman; these
failures will survive only so long as we need them. At the moment, they
constitute a convenient labor force. A handful of us can control them
by controlling their gods."

I drew my Hayden. "As I said, Baiel, I'm still in command of this
expedition."

He shrugged. "You've out-Haydened me, naturally; any Ranker could. If I
reach for mine, you'll burn me where I stand."

"I'm glad you understand that. Give me your weapons--you, Baiel, and
all your followers. Make any excuse you like to the tribe. You'll never
have an activated Hayden again, for hunting or any other purpose."

Without resistance, they allowed themselves to be disarmed. I pulled
the charges on all their weapons and negativized them.

"You settle everything so smoothly," Baiel laughed. "Next, of course,
you'll propose a--"

I cut him short. "All the expedition is here in the cave with us. They
all understand the differences between Baiel's objectives and mine. The
issue is clear enough for a vote." Slowly the hands went up. I counted
twenty-two in Baiel's faction, more than thirty in my own.

"So typical!" Baiel snorted. "So much like an Earthman! The will of the
majority--our universal cure-all for all things."

"You agree to abide by it, Baiel?"

His eyebrows arched in a mocking imitation of surprise. "Can an
Earthman do anything else, Captain?"

"So that we won't have a repetition of this morning's episode," I
said, "I'm giving this order: None of us will return to the _Olympus_
again for any reason without my consent. If it is violated, I'll take
disciplinary action under the terms of the Space Code."

There was a mutter of agreement, primarily from my faction, and the
angry meeting broke up. Nothing had been settled, except the division
of the expedition into two camps. We never worked together again in
harmony. Since Baiel's group was unarmed, their greatest potential
danger seemed to be gone; yet the village tension persisted.

Baiel could no longer use his Hayden to make a spectacular display
of the power of the sun god; slowly the old priest began to reassert
the cult of brother glacier. It seemed to me that Baiel encouraged
the change; certainly he and the old priest became more intimate than
before. I wanted to order an end to their close association, but my own
faction was against it.

"Baiel's harmless," they told me again and again. "Don't ride him,
Captain. Let this thing simmer down and we'll have them all on our side
again."

Gradually I realized that the very existence of the _Olympus_ was a
constant threat to the precarious stability of our community. There
were still countless machines aboard which could be converted into
further enervating gifts of the sun god. The _Olympus_ had to be
destroyed, and yet I had no means to accomplish it.

Built to withstand the extreme radiations of spatial sunlight
unfiltered by any atmosphere, the metal of the hull was immune to
the relatively low degree of heat generated by the Hayden. Only the
converted energy used to fuel the tubes could be used for emergency
welding if repairs had to be made away from our Earth bases. While
there was still a residue sealed in the tanks, I knew it was not enough
to liquidate even a part of the ship.

The alternative was to move the community to a place where it would be
physically impractical to return to the _Olympus_. To the south the
land would be more fertile in any case, the game more plentiful. To
migrate had always been one of my goals for the tribe.

But, when I proposed migration, I came face to face with the strongest
of their taboos. The volcanic mountains to the south were more
terrifying than brother glacier, which moved inexorably closer with
the passing years. No argument, no logic, no patient persuasion could
weaken the force of the taboo. Even Dayhan, who had learned so much,
refused to listen to me. Beyond the fire mountains lay the hunting
ground of the dead; it was forever forbidden to the living.

Suddenly, one night, the sky to the south blazed orange-red as the
slumbering volcano erupted. The ground trembled and we heard long
crevices cracking through the glacial ice; a gray ash settled down from
the sky, smearing the snow heaped around our stone huts.

The tribe flocked in terror to the old priest. Brother glacier, he told
them, was angry because he had been neglected; brother glacier demanded
sacrifices.

Baiel stood on the stone pedestal beside the priest, smirking
helplessly. When he caught my eye, he pointed to his sleeve to show
me that it was empty. Since I had negativized his Hayden, he could do
nothing to prevent the orgy of human slaughter.

I climbed the pedestal and tried reason. For a moment it seemed that
the tribe might listen. But the earth shook again and, panic stricken,
they started their lottery. Even then I would not have resorted to
Baiel's trick, if they had not chosen one of the Earthmen for the
sacrifice.

I made a display of the sun god's power; it worked, of course. The old
priest responded as if he had been waiting for my cue, and swayed the
mob with him. Then Baiel began to exhort them, crying that the quaking
ground was a sign sent by his god, not brother glacier. I slid blindly
back to my stone hut, sick with self-revulsion; I felt soiled with the
same deception of which Baiel stood accused.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning, while the ground still shook periodically, Baiel
returned to the _Olympus_. It was whispered on all sides, from both his
faction and my own.

I had to follow him. I had to know what he was up to. But the
undercurrent of feeling ran so high, it seemed necessary to conceal my
intention. I said I was going root-digging in the forest. According to
custom, Dayhan went with me.

I had taught her a great deal, but not enough to overcome her fear of
the tabooed ground. She was willing to wait for me at the edge of the
forest, just outside the sacrificial grove, but I hated to leave her
alone and relatively unprotected. With some misgiving, I gave her my
Hayden.

"My Lord!" Dayhan's almond eyes widened as she fingered the weapon. It
was the first time I had allowed any of the tribe to touch an energized
Hayden.

"Do you trust a woman's hand with the brother-of-the-sun?" she asked.
"Can I hope to understand the bark of your great god?"

"It is only a weapon, like your spear or arrow."

"So my Lord has taught me."

"It will burn any animal that threatens you while you wait."

"As I have seen when you go hunting. I point this small end at the
beast, and then call upon the sun god for--"

"No, Dayhan. Aim well and push the small handle. It is not a god that
makes the power, but the skill of man. Do not change the nozzle dial,
or you will blast the whole forest into flame."

"Enough sun-fire to burn the forest! Yet you say he is no god. I am
truly your mate, my Lord, when you share such power with me."

I left the forest and walked across the ice-covered meadow toward the
glacier. Three miles away, nestled like a black beetle at the foot of
the ice wall, lay the smashed cylinder of the _Olympus_, already nearly
covered with ice and snow. A thin ribbon of smoke curled up from the
open furnace.

Baiel met me at the door of the control room. Over his fraying
officer's uniform he wore a clumsy cloak of animal skins, as I did
myself. Particles of ice were frozen into his black beard, transforming
it into a jutting blade of ebony. I was suddenly aware how much he
had changed since our crash-landing. Always thin, he now appeared
emaciated. His youth was gone. Only the blaze in his blue eyes remained
the same--glittering, self-confident, determined. Denied the dress,
the grooming, the daily ritual of shaving, both Baiel and I had become
bearded, stoop-shouldered patriarchs, imposing hulks in our animal
cloaks.

"I expected you would follow me," Baiel said.

"Why did you come?" For a moment, I felt a peculiar warmth and pity for
him. "It's insubordination. I'll have to take disciplinary action when
we go back."

"I'm only trying to help, Captain." The words seemed right, but the
voice was mocking.

Baiel turned to the viewscreen and dialed the focus on the area of the
planet south of the volcanic mountains. I saw rolling hills and rich
forests, green plains watered by a network of streams; the land was a
broad peninsula surrounded by the calm, blue water of an immense sea.
There was no indication of human inhabitants.

"I know you've been trying to encourage the tribe to move," Baiel
explained. "I came up here to see if I could locate a place for us to
migrate. This peninsula is ideal, Captain. It's far enough from the
glacier for agriculture to be practical, and--"

"The problem isn't to find the place, Baiel, but to conquer their taboo
against migration."

"But you can do that, Captain; just teach the little savages to reason
the way men do. Nothing to it." He smiled, then, and held out his hand.
"Face it, Captain Theusaman; admit you're wrong! Last night you had to
call on the gods; you couldn't control them any other way. If the sun
god orders a migration, we can have them on their way in two hours."

"So you're still trying to convince me that you're right."

"Of course; that's why I wanted you to follow me here. Would I have any
other reason?"

His answer seemed too quick. I looked at him, frowning, but the smile
on his face was unreadable.

"Tell me, Baiel: What did you really want on the _Olympus_?"

He shrugged. "I came to use the viewscreen."

"You risked discipline for something so foolish?"

"What else? I can't bring any of the machines back to the village; you
would throw them out. I can't power the tubes and go back to Earth."

It was all so glibly logical; yet I knew he was lying. I moved toward
him, snatching the fringe of his cloak in my clenching fists. "I'm
asking once again, Baiel: What did you expect to find here?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"My Lord! My Lord!"

Baiel and I both whirled toward the open cabin door. Dayhan was
outside, slowly crossing the last fifty feet of icy meadow toward the
ship. When Baiel saw her, the smile sagged on his lips and he sprang
from the ship.

"You're on tabooed ground!" he cried. "Go back!"

"I have no fear." Her words were brave, but her voice was a choked
whisper as she looked up at the towering undulations of the glacier
glaring in the sun. "Where my Lord can go, I will follow. Brother
glacier is no god. See! I defy him." She raised my Hayden and aimed it
unsteadily at the wall of ice above the _Olympus_.

"No!" Baiel screamed. "The sun god will destroy you!"

Baiel was ten paces ahead of me. He reached her as she fired. He
knocked the Hayden from her hand with such force that Dayhan was
thrown sprawling on the slick ground.

Above us tons of ice, dislodged by the Hayden blast, broke and slid
down the face of the glacier upon the _Olympus_, rocking the ship over
on its side. Baiel flung up his hands in terror, but lowered them a
moment later. Behind his facial mask of stark fear, I saw a strange
expression of uneasy surprise and calculation.

I moved toward him, my fists doubled.

"Even when they begin to conquer the taboos," I cried, through clenched
teeth, "you still try to prevent it!"

"No, Captain; you've got it wrong. I just wanted--you--you had no right
to give her the Hayden." Baiel spoke in a hoarse, nervous whisper,
backing away from me slowly.

"Dayhan's my wife."

"She's still a primitive animal."

I lunged at him. He turned and ran. I would have followed, but Dayhan
began to call after me frantically. I returned to help her. The ground
beneath her was stained red; a jagged blade of ice had ripped a deep
gash in her leg.

With my knife I cut a strip from my fur jacket and wound it as a
tourniquet above the pulsing wound. My fingers were numb with cold. I
worked slowly and awkwardly, but at last the bleeding ceased. Dayhan
tried to stand, but she could not.

"Leave me here, my Lord," she whispered. "Brother glacier is angry; he
wants my blood."

"It was simply an accident, Dayhan. The glacier had nothing to do with
it."

"I trod on tabooed ground. I defied him."

"Man makes the taboos and the punishments and the sacrifices!"

"So you have said, my Lord, and yet--"

"I have taught you truth. You walked alone and without harm on tabooed
ground. You must tell that to your people. The harm came to you after
you found us, Dayhan--from Baiel. Only man is cruel to man, not the
gods."

I pulled her arm around my shoulder and we began the slow, painful walk
back to the village. We had to stop frequently to rest. Twice I loosed
the tourniquet to permit the blood to circulate in her lower leg.

It was four hours before we reached the edge of the forest. There two
of my men met us. They had begun to search the forest for me when Baiel
returned to the village alone. We improvised a stretcher for Dayhan and
carried her between us. The bleeding of her wound had stopped. With a
pinpoint Hayden beam, I turned a drift of snow into steam and used the
boiled water residue to cleanse the caked blood away from the cut. I
seared a strip of skin and used it as a bandage. On the gently swaying
stretcher Dayhan closed her eyes and slept.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we were still a quarter of a mile from the village, the chief and
a small band of his hunters met us on the forest trail.

"The sun god speaks to us in a giant voice," the chief said. "It
thunders in every corner of our village!"

"What does the god say?"

"He orders to take up our goods and go. He gives us the hunting ground
of the dead, beyond the fire mountains."

"And your people fear to obey?"

"No. Your sun god is all-powerful. It is your own people who prevent
us. They hold the priest, Baiel, with his followers, imprisoned in the
cave by means of your weapons, the brothers-of-the-sun. They tell us it
is not the sun god who speaks, but Baiel himself."

"They tell you truly."

"But no man can have so great a voice as that we hear!"

So that was why Baiel had gone back to the _Olympus_! He had returned
to the village with a portable amplifier concealed under his fur cloak.
"Baiel is no priest," I told the Chief. "He speaks for no god. The
great voice you hear is made by a machine, such a thing as this weapon
that we use to slay meat for the tribe."

"You speak knowingly, Seus-man, because you, too, are a priest of the
sun. You showed us that much last night. Some of my tribe say you and
all your people are not simple priests, but brother gods."

"We are men."

"I have married my daughter to the brother-god of the sun!"

"We are men; men!"

"But have you not advised us to move, as the sun god does now? In our
blindness we have heard and not obeyed. And now the sun god gives
orders that we must be gone before he rides directly overhead; yet your
people will not allow it."

"So Baiel's putting a time limit on the migration," I mused aloud.
"Why? Tell me, Chief, how it was, from the beginning."

"As soon as you left, Seus-man, our old priest walked in the village,
declaring we would have a great sign from the sun today. Later the
priest, Baiel, returned and went into the cave, with some of your
people. We began to hear the voice of the sun. The others of your
people--the ones who carry the weapons--gathered outside, shooting
streaks of fire at the cave, but above it so that no man was harmed.
They cried to Baiel to come forth and give himself to them. He refused,
and so things stand. I came seeking you. Only you can intercede with
your priests so they allow us to obey the god. Come quickly, for our
time is short."

We gave Dayhan's stretcher to four of the hunters. I turned to follow
the chief back to the village. Only then did he seem to notice his
daughter. With deference he glanced at her pale face. Trembling, he
asked:

"She is dead?"

"No; but she has been hurt."

"Her Lord has punished her?"

"She was harmed by a piece of ice."

"Brother glacier still means to be revenged on us! If we do not hasten
to obey the voice of the sun, who will protect us?"

"Protect yourselves, as men. No god has any power to equal yours."

"You speak as a priest of the sun. You hold the weapon of the sun in
your hand. You are not like us."

"I am no different. I am a man, the husband of your daughter. Here,
take my weapon." I thrust the Hayden into his hand. "Does it make you
different? Are you transformed into a god?"

He caressed the cold metal, slowly raising the nozzle and pointing
it at a drift of snow. The red flame sputtered and steam swirled up,
coating the pines overhead with a film of ice.

"The power of the sun," he whispered. "Come, Lord, we must go quickly
to our people."

In the village I found the men of my faction arranged in a semi-circle
in front of the cave mouth. Huddled behind them was perhaps
three-fourths of the tribe, the women my men had taken as mates and
their families. The rest of the tribe was packed densely at the mouth
of the cave, swaying and shouting their worship as the voice of Baiel
thundered at intervals out of the darkness of the cavern.

One of my men saluted raggedly, explaining how the situation had
developed. He added: "We have been aiming above their heads, trying to
frighten them away from the cave. No luck, so far."

"Of course Baiel's people aren't armed?"

"No, but too many of the tribe would be killed if we tried to rush the
cave."

"I think we can starve them out."

To hesitate was the natural result of our psycho-processing. Violence,
we had always been taught, was the resort of the disoriented, not a
solution to any problem. Even now we could not bring ourselves to give
up the pattern of our Earthly civilization.

Since it was the prescribed rational procedure, I tried to talk to the
tribe. From the beginning my argument was weak, for I was opposing the
migration which I had myself advocated. It meant nothing to them when
I tried to point out the difference in motivation; but it symbolized
everything to me. The migration to a better land had to come as a
result of their conquest of tribal taboos, not as an exchange of
allegiances from brother glacier to the sun god.

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as Baiel heard my voice, he began to jeer at me over the
amplifier. When I made no reply, his tone gradually changed. Over and
over he repeated the orders of the sun god, that the migration must
begin by high noon. But his mockery was slowly tainted with fear, as
the sun mounted the heavens and my armed men still held the tribe in
the village.

The stretcher bearers arrived with Dayhan. She was awake. She sat up
against my shoulder, holding tight to my hand. Softly she spoke to the
tribe as I had:

"It is not the gods that rule us. There are no taboos; the glacier is
but a thing of ice, without life. I have seen for myself. I have walked
unharmed on the tabooed ground. In truth, we must migrate to the south,
but my Lord has taught us that we must go of our own will and not
because of fear of the sun god."

She was one of the tribe. They knew her as they knew their own
children. She spoke in their words, in terms of their concepts. It
should have convinced them, but it did not. Instead they retreated from
her, cringingly respectful, muttering among themselves that Dayhan's
mating had changed her into a brother-god.

Suddenly there was a stirring at the cave mouth. The massed tribesmen
shifted aside reluctantly. Eight of the women who had been in Baiel's
faction slid down toward us, weeping with fear. At once Baiel's voice
boomed out:

"The time is up. You have not obeyed. I was sent by the sun god to lead
you to safety, and you have not heeded me. The god will strike, now,
at the glacier and tear this ground from beneath your feet. I give you
one chance more. Offer up Captain Theusaman in sacrifice and I, Baiel,
will lead you to a new world. But you must make the sacrifice at once.
The god grows impatient."

My men closed around Dayhan and me protectively, but at first there was
no need. The concept bewildered the tribe. They had accepted me, too,
as priest of the sun; the god could not demand my blood. According to
the theory of their superstitions, it made no sense.

One of the women who had fled from the cave was brought to me.
White-faced, she twisted her hands together in anguish while she talked.

"We didn't know he'd done it, Captain Theusaman--I swear it!"

"Who?"

"Baiel--this morning at the _Olympus_. He just told us."

"But what? Speak up! Tell me!"

"He put on the automatic power in the control room, timed to energize
the dorsal tubes at noon."

"No harm in that. The tubes are blown. The blast will simply send open
flame soaring into the sky."

"There's forty hours' residue in the tank. Baiel thought the sight of
the flame would terrify the tribe into obeying him. But he says the
ship was overturned this morning, after he had set the dials; so the
broken tubes are pointing down toward the base of the glacier."

I understood the woman's terror, then, and my own body tensed with
cold fear. Instead of making a harmless display, the sun-hot energy,
blasting through the naked dorsal tubes for the next forty hours, would
be fed into the glacier and the ground beneath it. In half that time
the liquefying flame could pierce the planetary crust and reach its
molten core.

As I sprang to my feet the first shock stabbed into the frozen ground.
The shattering explosion of the crumbling glacier rocked the air. In
the distance a cloud of steam arose, blood red from the flames raging
beneath it. In seconds the sun was blotted over with thick clouds. Hot
rain began to fall.

The earth quivered so violently it was almost impossible to stand. Yet
still Baiel's voice boomed through the village.

"Give me the blood of Theusaman and I spare the tribe!"

From priest, he had become the sun god himself.

The rain fell in a deluge. The snow dissolved into slush, and the
village ran with mud.

Dayhan screamed. I turned and saw one of the tribal hunters atop the
stone pedestal, drawing careful aim on me with his bow and arrow. I
caught the shaft in the air with a wide angle beam from my Hayden.

"Give me the blood of Theusaman!" Baiel cried.

The quaking increased steadily. Small landslides of stone began
to slither from the face of the cliff. The roof of the cave shook
and sagged. The tribe backed away, swirling around me in fury and
brandishing their spears in the bleary air.

The distant rending of the glacier reached a new climax of thunder, and
the deluge swelled into a torrent. The draining water became a stream,
racing muddily through the village and eating at the crumbling cliffs.
The skies darkened as if it were dusk. It was difficult to recognize
faces in the frenzy of squirming bodies.

Driven by the madness of Baiel's chanting voice, many of the young
hunters threw themselves upon us. We used Haydens only as a last
resort, and the sluggish, hand-to-hand fighting in the rising mud went
on indecisively. No one was badly hurt. It was too easy to escape
clutching arms; it was too hard to know the face of friend from foe
in the gloom. Shouting voices were drowned by the rising wind, the
ceaseless din of crumbling glacial ice.

Abruptly the battle was over. A terrified whisper swept the throng:
the god was gone! Someone had looked into the cave and found it empty.
Baiel and ten of his faction had fled; thirty of the tribe had departed
with them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The shock was paralyzing to those who stayed behind. The tribe began to
wail its lamentation. The god had deserted them! I moved from group to
group, repeating my familiar theme:

"The gods can neither harm nor save you. That you must do for
yourselves."

It had no effect. They stared at me with vacant eyes. They repeated
dumbly in reply: "The sun god is gone. He leaves us to the mercy of
brother glacier."

The stream coursing through the village had risen slowly until it
became a raging river. Still the tribe made no effort to escape. They
had violated their code of the supernatural, and they believed they
must resign themselves to their punishment. I watched as a woman was
carried away by the flood, drowned screaming beneath a part of the
cliff which washed down upon her.

During a momentary lull in the din, the old chief mounted the swaying
stone pedestal, brandishing the Hayden I had given him.

"The sun god has not gone," he cried. "See, I share his power, and I
know he is still among us." He pointed the Hayden at the mouth of the
cave, and the stone crumbled in the caress of red flame. "Seus-man is
the sun god; Baiel was false, sent of evil things."

"Seus-man," the crowd whispered. After a moment, they began to shout
with new hope. "Seus-man! Seus-man! Seus! Seus!"

On their shoulders they lifted me up and carried me to the pedestal. As
I began to speak, I saw a wall of water moving down upon us, crested by
a foaming wave. It was the first flood tide from the melting glacier.
If it reached the village unbroken, the tribe would be wiped out.

I snatched the Hayden from the Chief, aiming the point of flame at the
base of the cliff. Dirt and granite toppled into the path of the flood.
The tribe dropped on its knees in the thick mud, shouting praise of my
name.

My crude dam might hold for an hour, certainly no longer. I had no time
to convince them by persuasion. It would be opposing the full violence
of reality with the thin web of philosophy. The important thing at the
moment was to lead the tribe to safety.

I looked down upon them and I began to speak wearily.

"I am Theusaman, god of the sun," I said. "Take up your possessions and
follow me...."

Baiel had won, after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

All that happened more than fifty years ago.

I did lead the tribe to safety; that much I accomplished. They have
since built many villages and they have learned the art of agriculture
and of domesticating cattle. They have thrived and grown and joined
with other tribes. They will survive and someday rule their planet.

As Baiel once predicted, the glacier is rapidly retreating. The process
began with the heat generated by the exposed dorsal tube of the dead
_Olympus_. Each spring the run-off of melting water is greater than the
ice which accumulates during the winter. When the glacier is gone, it
will give my people a fertile world like our own Earth.

For that I am glad, because I have given them nothing else.

Nothing else!

I have, instead, saddled them with a hierarchy of gods. The tribes
which migrated across the sea have taken a part of my name as their
sun god; they call me Amon. Here at home they call me Zeus. Dayhan has
become Diana, the goddess of the forests. Even Baiel leaves his name
with a people settled in the desert, though to us Baal persists as a
god of evil things.

Ironically, the one thing of Earth that I have given these people
is the name itself. This planet they call the Earth, unaware of any
other. They think of themselves as Earthmen. And I? I am called Zeus of
Olympus, father of all the gods!

Perhaps I judge my failure too bitterly. I am an old man, now, the last
living survivor of the expedition. I have looked into the face of my
sons and my grandsons, as I have the sons and grandsons of the other
Earthmen who were with our expedition. Our children have our features,
not the slant skulls and ape arms of their mothers. Have we, by chance,
left on this lonely planet something of our potential ability as
Earthmen?

       *       *       *       *       *

Though I cannot live long enough to know the answer, I would like to
believe that we have. Because I want to believe, I leave this written
account of the truth. I address it to my sons of tomorrow--to men who
have finally made themselves free of taboo and superstition. To them
I say: Lift up your eyes to the sky, to that other Earth across the
emptiness of space. Seek them out, those other Earthmen, and know them
for your brothers.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO THE SONS OF TOMORROW ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
