The Project Gutenberg eBook of The band played on, by C. Shook

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The band played on

Author: C. Shook

Release Date: July 24, 2022 [eBook #68598]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BAND PLAYED ON ***





                          THE BAND PLAYED ON

                              By C. Shook

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Astonishing Stories, June 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I'm playing trombone in a little five-piece combo at Benny's Bar and
Grill when it happens. At the time we are slightly enlarged by the
presence of four of Bill Gundry's boys who are working out at the park
and have dropped by to sit in after they have finished, and also we
have present Eddie Smith and Mart Allen, who are a clarinet and trumpet
from The Pines.

Benny's is the local hangout for all the musicians in town, which is
the main reason I'm playing there; one night Whiteman himself shows,
when his band is working a theatre job at the Palace.

During the early part of the night we play our own arrangements off the
paper, but after about one o'clock we are liable to be jamming with
any of the boys who can find seats--like this night I'm telling you
about.

When I first notice it we are giving out on the _Jazz Me Blues_, which
is a fine ensemble number, and we are hitting it in a fast Dixieland.
I'm ragging the beat and I can feel the old slush pump tremble, but
I figure it's because I'm really solid at the moment and I keep on
sending.

Well, we clean up the _Jazz Me's_ and I'm still hot so I hit right on
the B-natural for _Stardust_, with the boys jumping in, and we take it
slow and mellow through one chorus together. Then I stand up for a solo
on the second, and that is when it happens.

I don't know exactly what takes place, but I'm riding as I reach out
for a high one that's really out of the world. I feel the pump tremble
again, and then what happens is that I am really out of the world.

I mean _I'm actually out of the world_!

The vibrations from the trombone shoot right up my arms, and then
my whole body is shaking. I can't stop it. The lights fade away and
I'm trembling so I can't even hear the music ... and then I'm not
shaking any more, but Benny's is not there or I'm not there, and it is
daylight, which is crazy because it is only two A.M.

I am still kind of weak as I look around, and then I'm weaker still.
The least thing, I figured, was that I had had a spasm or something
and was in a hospital and it was the next day. But when I look around
again I know this is no hospital. I'm lying on a big flat rock and I am
dressed just as I was at Benny's. I even have my slip-horn beside me.

But the thing that gives me the jumps is the grass. It is all purple.
And the trees and everything around have purple leaves where they
should be green. I look at my coat. It is a light blue. My pants are
black and my skin is white. Then I look at the grass beside me. I
reach out and pick a handful. It is plenty purple all right. And I'm
thinking as I look at it there in my hand that there is no place in the
world where the trees and plants are purple. No place in the world....

I know I am not asleep, but tell myself, "whenever you read about
anything like this happening, the hero always thinks he is asleep at
first and pinches himself to find out whether he is or not." So I reach
over for my slush pump and give it a good blast. I hear it all right.
Just to make sure, I do pinch myself lightly, but it is no soap. I am
here and the grass is still purple. I get up off the rock and walk
about.

When I stand up I find that I am in a large meadow with nothing more in
sight than the rocks here and there and a few trees. The purple grass
is nearly knee-high. There is no sense in staying where I am, so I pick
up my trombone and begin hiking. After I have walked a couple of miles,
maybe, I come to a river. I am not surprised to find that the water is
a deep yellow. Nothing will surprise me now.

There must be some settlement along this river if there is anyone
living around here, I figure, so I follow along the way the water is
flowing. Three or four hours I tramp, and this is something I am not
used to. My feet are getting plenty beat and I take up the old bleater
and try _The Stars and Stripes Forever_, the only march I can think of.
This helps me stumble along in two-four time a while, but it uses up
what wind I have left, and pretty soon I am forced to sit down and rest.

Well, I guess I doze off while I am resting, for when I come out of it
I find myself tied up tighter than a drum, and there in front of me are
four men or animals or something examining my trombone.

"Hey," I say.

At that they turn around and stare at me and I stare even harder at
them. And then I bust out laughing. For they look like four grown up
Donald Ducks. They have duck bills for mouths, and their feet are
webbed, but they have arms instead of wings. Their bodies are covered
with feathers, except for their heads which have a greenish skin and
would almost be human if it weren't for those bills and the green color.

They begin to gab among themselves and I am surprised because I am
expecting to hear them quack like ducks. Their voices are low-pitched
and they talk way down in their throats something like German, but
though I don't understand it, I know it isn't. They are talking about
me, I can tell, and finally one of them comes over and unties my feet
and legs. But he leaves my arms fastened. He motions for me to get up.
I do and we start down the river with one of them carrying my slip-horn
and walking beside me, and the others floating on the water like their
barnyard relatives. This is the way we come to their town.

It is only a short distance before the river widens considerably, and
I can see that it is dotted with little islands. The three men who are
swimming come close to shore and they walk with the one guarding me,
pointing out at one of the islands as they speak. I gather that they
don't know how to take me out there. One of them gestures at the water
and then at me, but I shake my head no. They gab some more.

Finally one of them hops into the water and swims to the nearest
island. He is back in a flash with about ten other duck men who
immediately begin gabbing excitedly as soon as they see me. The one
holding my trombone says something to them and they shut up and get
back into the water. They push me to the edge of the bank and then one
of them takes hold of my legs and pulls me into the river on his back.
He almost sinks before the others can grab me too and help him out,
and even at that they are as far down as low 'E on the doghouse when
they start out for the large island almost in the center of the river.
This must be their main village, I figure, and it turns out that I am
right. Once we get to the village they untie my arms and hand me my
horn. I guess they figure I can't get off the island now.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, I don't know what I'm in for, but whatever it is, it is postponed
for a while because they take me to a small hut and leave me. There is
nothing in the hut except a pile of pale purple straw in one of the
corners, but I don't need anything else. I am plenty weary and I flop
on the straw and am asleep in a minute.

When I awake again, it is morning. I get up and walk to the door and
there are four or five of the duck men standing nearby. They see me
come out and they smile, but when I start to move about, they point
back into the hut and so I go back in and sit down. I am still sitting
there when some others come in with some trays of food. These are a
lot lighter green in the faces and I guess they must be the women of
the race. They have a lot of stuff that looks like purple lettuce, and
different vegetable-looking things on the trays, and they act as if I
am to eat them. After I taste them they are not so bad. I even drink a
cup of the yellow water, and it is not so bad either, only sweeter than
I would want ordinarily.

Once I have finished, I go back outside. Right in front of the door is
the duck man which carried my slush pump on the walk yesterday, and
when he sees me he smiles and comes over and hits me on the back with
his hand. I do the same to him and he smiles wider. This means we are
friends, I figure, like shaking hands, so I smile too. He motions for
me to come with him.

Some of the others come with us, and we walk all around the village
which is not so large. My friend seems to be the head man. He walks
with me, and the rest stay a little behind. I am being treated like I
have the key to the city. All around are the small huts like the one I
slept in, and there isn't much else to the town except for a couple of
larger buildings which are made of the same purple wood that the huts
are made of. I figure that if three people occupy each hut, there are
maybe six hundred altogether in the town. There are some other villages
on the islands I can see, but they are not so large.

After we have toured for an hour or two, the chief takes me to one
of the large buildings and we go inside. City hall, I think. And
sure enough we go right to the mayor's office, which is a little
room partitioned off from the rest. There are a couple of stools or
something there, and the mayor hops up on one with his thin legs
underneath him. I sit on the other. He smiles and I smile, and I think
this is getting pretty dull and maybe it would be better if he weren't
so friendly because anyway I would have some action. I think I will get
away and go over and try a few numbers on the horn.

Finally after we sit there smiling for some time, he points to himself.

"Ogroo," he says. His name.

So I hit myself on the chest and tell him my name.

Then he walks around the room and points to the stools and the table
and the walls. He says words at each one. He is trying to teach me
their language, so I repeat each one after him. We play this little
game for quite a while and then we have food brought in. While we are
eating, Ogroo is telling me the name of what I am chewing on and it
doesn't taste nearly as good as it did when I knew it was plain food
only.

When we finish eating, Ogroo gets up and takes me back to our hut. I
am supposed to stay there, I see. Anyway I think I will get out a few
riffs just to keep in practice, so I go inside for my slush pump. It
isn't there.

So this is why the so and so was keeping me away all the time he did, I
say to myself. I am plenty burned up, but there is nothing I can do.

When Ogroo shows up the next morning, I try to tell him about it, but
he pretends not to understand. Instead we go through the same routine
as the day before, only we eat in another room and he shows me some new
words.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, the horn doesn't show up and I can tell my lip is slipping out
of shape. It is now three weeks since I got into this place and I have
nothing different. I am able to talk to the duck men, though, and I
will say for Ogroo that he is a good teacher since I am never more than
a poor C in languages when I am in school.

And then one day Ogroo says to me, "Mac, I am happy to tell you that we
have located the object which you call a trombone. One of the men took
it and has had it hidden. He feared it was a thing of evil power. I
assured him it was not, though I was not so sure myself. I hope that I
was correct."

"Ogroo, old boy," I tell him, "the trombone is strictly a thing of
good power as I will show you if you will produce it. It is a thing of
music."

"Why, Mac," says Ogroo, "why did you not say this before. We have music
too. It is our great pride."

       *       *       *       *       *

Now during the time the mayor has been educating me, there is one of
the large buildings which I have never been in. I have asked Ogroo
about this and he has always said they were saving it as a surprise for
me. But now he gets up and starts out the door.

"You will know of the surprise at last," he says.

And he leads me to the big barn which has always been closed.

Well you can hang me for a long-hair when we get inside, for there are
about two hundred of the duck people shuffling around like a flock
of jitterbugs, and ten or twelve players are giving out with some
corny rhythm on a raised platform for a bandstand. They have about
three-fourths percussion, mostly tom-tom-like drums, but there are
a few gut buckets of some kind which they do not appear to play for
nothing.

Ogroo looks at me.

"Is it not magnificent?" he says.

"Well," I say, "it is all right, but where I come from it is done in
a slightly different manner. I shall be happy to show you if you will
kindly produce my horn."

I can hardly wait to lay my lip into a solid beat the more I listen to
these ickies peeling it off the cob, and when one of the men finally
brings in old Susie, I kiss her lovingly. She is in fine shape.

Old Ogroo stops the noise. He makes an announcement, and everything is
quiet as I step up with my slush pump. It is like Goodman at Carnegie
Hall.

Everybody crowds around as I give out with the _Royal Garden Blues_.
I see I have them overcome and I begin to send softly as I hear one
of the boys pick up the beat in the background. He is not so awful
at that. After I have taken two choruses, one of the gut buckets has
picked up the melody and I dub in the harmony for him. The crowd is
beginning to sway slightly when I slide into _Rose Room_ and pretty
soon they are on the jump until it is worse than a bunch of the
alligators at a Krupa concert. All in all it is a very successful
performance indeed.

By the time I have finished, I see that I have first chair cinched, and
the crowd is eating out of my hand.

This is by no means the last performance I give. I soon have the duck
men in the band playing the best jive they can give out with, but it is
rather sorry without any reeds and only one brass. They are entirely
unable to play any wind instruments, though, so I am forced to make the
best of it.

We play for three or four hours, and when old Ogroo and I finally leave
the hall, I am cheered all down the line. I am really terrific.

"Mac," Ogroo tells me when we are outside, "you are wonderful. We
appreciate music and in fact it is the biggest thing in our lives here.
But you are lucky that we are the ones that found you on your arrival
and not the animal men from the woods. They are very ignorant, and your
trombone would have meant nothing to them."

Well, this is the first time I have heard about these animal men, and
I figure maybe they are a little closer to civilization than Ogroo
thinks. I ask him about them.

"They are our enemies," he says, "and are much stronger than we. They
control all the land surrounding us, but on the water we have the best
of them and they never try to attack us here. However we must venture
into the forests sometimes, and then we are in constant danger. Many of
us are killed or captured each year."

I think no more about this, however, and I spend my time playing for
the concerts they have every day. I am very popular with one and
all. But a few weeks afterwards, Ogroo asks me to join one of their
expeditions into the forests.

"We have to gather our monthly food crop," he says. "And everyone in
the community has to do his share. As you are now one of us, it is only
fitting that you come along."

Well, of course I clap Ogroo on the back and tell him I will be very
pleased to go, and, in fact, I am not worried much about their enemies
because I am a good hundred pounds heavier than any of the duck men
and I figured I will be plenty for these animal people to handle. As
it turns out, I am right in this respect, but I hit one bad note which
almost costs me my life and very possibly does so for my friends.

There are about twenty of us that start out. Each one is carrying two
large baskets made out of the purple reeds which grow in the swampy
lowlands of the islands. Before we begin, I tell Ogroo that I will swim
over if he will carry my baskets, but he does not understand what I
mean until I dive into the river and demonstrate. This exhibition is
a great surprise to everyone, as they have never seen anything like
it before. When I have climbed out on the other bank, the rest of the
party jumps in and floats over rapidly. Then we begin walking toward
the deep purple forests.

We hustle around all morning, and there is no trouble. What we are
gathering is some kind of mushroom that grows around the foot of the
trees, and we are looking for certain vegetables which have to have
the shade to amount to anything. It is in the afternoon shortly before
we are ready to depart that one of the men who is acting as a lookout
gives the alarm. There is a group of animal men hunting in the woods
and they have spotted us. I am curious to see how these men appear and
I hang back some while the others run as fast as they can on their
webbed feet toward the river; they are luckily near the water, for they
could never outdistance these land people.

Well, I know I can catch up, so, as I say, I wait a couple of seconds.
But when I have a gander at our enemies, I am off faster than a
sixty-fourth beat, and it is none too soon. As a matter of fact, it is
a wonder that I am able to run at all, for what I see charging at me
is about ten big two-headed monsters running on four legs sometimes,
and sometimes on two. They are not quite as large as a man when they
stand up, but they are enough to send me heading for the river. I dive
in just before they get there and I am churning the water like the
_Queen Mary_ when I hit the island. Then I look around to see what has
happened. The monsters are lined up at the edge of the river watching
us, but they do not try to cross over. They are pointing at me and
acting excited, and Ogroo laughs.

"They have never seen anything like you," he says. "But we are safe now
for they cannot--what did you call it--swim?"

I say that is very lucky indeed, as they are remarkably tough appearing
babies, but we do not bother any more with them and pretty soon they
have disappeared into the forests. It is over a week later that I
realize the bad note I hit and what it is going to do to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am sitting on a rock near the island's edge this morning trying to
work a little oil out of some plants I have found. I wish to apply some
of this to my slip-horn, as the action is getting somewhat gummy and I
have neglected to bring any of these necessities with me when I ride
out of Benny's. While I am doing this, I see some of the animal men
come out of the forest and start toward the river. This is odd since I
am told they never do this. They do not see me so I stay where I am,
and I see two of them talking and arguing with the others. These two
seem to have some idea, and the rest are telling them no and shaking
all their heads to do it. It must be a real argument, I think, with two
mouths to speak with at the same time. I wonder if one of these animals
could get two part harmony with a pair of trumpets, but then I recall
that they are strictly ickies, as old Ogroo has explained to me.

So I watch them some more, and pretty soon the two who are talking most
jump right into the river and begin to throw their legs up and down and
flail their arms, and they are soon moving across the water just as if
they could swim. In fact they are swimming, and this excites me greatly
since Ogroo has said they could not do this. I get up quick and begin
to hunt Ogroo and luckily I find him right away. I tell him what is
taking place and he is also greatly excited.

"I'm afraid we have done it now, Mac," he says to me as we run back to
where I saw the animal men. "Those creatures are highly imitative--it
is the only way they seem to gain any new skill--and they must have
been thinking over what they saw when they watched you swim away from
them last week."

By the time he has told me this we are back where I have left my
trombone, and are just in time to see the last of the group jump into
the river. They are able to make the nearest island, which has a small
village of maybe fifty people. Well, I do not like this part of my
story much and I will cut it short. What happens is that the animal men
wipe out that little village in ten minutes and right before our eyes.
The animals are extremely happy and we see them grinning with their
ugly double faces as they return to shore.

"Quick," says Ogroo, "we have only a little time. They will bring the
rest of their tribe immediately and attack all the rest of our islands.
We must hide."

I grab my horn and we hurry to notify our own village. But we are
stopped. There is no place to go.

Then we hear the menacing roar of the animal men. As we turn, they can
be seen jumping into the river one by one. There are hundreds of them.

I turn resignedly to Ogroo. I start to tell him that we must get
something to defend ourselves with, but the people are so paralyzed
with fear that I know we can never do it. And then before I can say
anything, I see the villagers coming slowly toward Ogroo and me. They
seem very angry indeed.

Ogroo speaks hurriedly. "They are after you, Mac. You're the one that
showed the animal men how to swim and they are after you. In the state
they are in, you will probably be killed. I'll try to reason with them,
but it is almost certain to be useless, for they might even be after
me. I have been your sponsor."

He claps me on the back and then starts toward his people. I do not
know what to do. I can see a detachment of the animal people not more
than a hundred yards off shore, and the duck men are moving angrily
toward me not much farther away. I see them push Ogroo aside as he
begins to say something to them.

I move my trombone nervously. And suddenly I see my only chance. I am
shaking before I start, but I fit the mouth-piece to my lip and begin
to blow. I take a fast scale and I hit the B-natural for _Stardust_ at
least an octave higher than it was ever played before. I have got to
ride high and fast.

Well, I close my eyes and I am shaking so that I hardly notice the
vibrations of the horn begin, but when I reach the E in the third
measure, I know I am feeling what I felt in Benny's. So I keep pushing
it, and the last I remember I am trying to reach the high C closing.

That is when I pass out....

       *       *       *       *       *

When I come to this time, I am almost afraid to open my eyes. My ears
are still buzzing, and I am just beginning to realize weakly what has
happened when I hear voices around me which are not part of the score.
They are speaking in English. I open my eyes then, and look around.

I find that I am surrounded by a crowd of people who are saying to
one another to give him air and to take it easy, and I perceive that
I am on a city sidewalk, and in fact, as I look up, I see that it is
somewhere on Fifty-Second Street. A perfect landing for a tail gate
artist, I think as I sit up.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the crowd sees me do this they move in even closer, all the time
telling one another to give me air, but finally one of them claims that
he is a doctor and he helps me up and I go with him and another man in
uniform who is probably a policeman. They tell me that they are taking
me to a hospital, and I do not remember much after that. When I wake up
again, I am in the hospital.

A doctor has hold of my wrist, and when he sees me open my eyes he
says, "How are you feeling now?"

I tell him okay.

"Well," he says, "you seem to have had quite a shock, and perhaps
you do not want to discuss it now, but your manner of dress and this
instrument which you have brought with you have excited my curiosity no
little."

I see that my trombone is on the table near him.

"Why no, I do not mind telling you," I say, "though you might find it
hard to believe what I have gone through. But first--where am I and
what month is it?"

The doctor lets go of my wrist.

"You are in New York," he says, "and it is September of the year
Twenty-five O Seven."

"Just a minute," I say, "I must misunderstand you. I thought you said
the year was Twenty-five O Seven."

"That is what I did say," says the doc.

"But that cannot be true," I tell him. "Why I was born in 1914 and it
is not possible for me to be living at such a period in history."

He picks up my wrist again.

"You are a little excited," he says, "and I think you had better get a
bit more rest. Then we can talk this thing over later."

I see him say something to the nurse who is standing in the doorway all
this time, and she nods as he goes out. I start to call to him but I
figure it is no use. So I go back to sleep.

The second time I wake up, the doc is back and he has four other men
with him. They are sitting in chairs around the room watching me; as
soon as they see I am awake they come over to my bed.

"These men are very much interested in your case," the doctor tells
me. "I have been telling them about your statement and the strange
circumstances attending your appearance on Fifty-Second Street today.
Now I feel that you have had enough rest and I want you to tell them
the entire story."

Well, I know they will figure I am off the beat, but I start at
the beginning and relate the whole story anyway. They do not say a
word until I have finished. Then they look at each other and have a
whispered session on the other side of the room. Finally one of them
speaks up.

"Mr. McRae," he says, "we want to question you a little further if you
don't mind. Will you please put on your clothes and come with us?"

I do like they say since there is nothing else for me to do, and when
I am dressed they take me down the hall to a big light room which is
practically all glass, and they ask me to sit down at a large table.

"Now, Mr. McRae," the first doc says, "I want you to do something for
me."

He hands me ten little blocks of different sizes and informs me that I
am to place them in the proper holes in a board which he has ready for
just that purpose. I do as he asks.

These seems to surprise him, but he is all set with another test, and I
spend the rest of the afternoon playing these little games, until I am
plenty weary of it and I say so to him.

"Well," he says, "as you likely know, we have been trying to determine
your sanity. I will say that you have demonstrated yourself to be
entirely normal."

"That is fine," I say, "but now that we have decided that will someone
kindly tell me what is this business about Twenty-Five O Seven--and
what has been happening to me anyhow."

Another of the doctors answers me.

"There seems to be only one other explanation," he says, "one which we
are reluctant to accept but which we must consider if your story is
true. You have been in a fourth dimension. The passage of time there
is something that we know nothing of, and it is possible that the few
months you spent in it were equivalent to the centuries which have
passed in this dimension. You have apparently evolved a unique and
purely personal method for entering and leaving the fourth dimension,
and since it seems entirely dependent on your own physical skill
together with a large element of chance, it is of little value for
scientific exploitation. That is the pity."

While he is giving out this statement, the rest of the doctors grow
very excited, and soon as he has finished they begin throwing questions
at him about curvature of space and Neilson's theory and a lot of other
stuff which is very confusing to me indeed.

Finally I stop them.

"If you will kindly return my trombone," I tell them, "I will be on my
way, as I do not know anything of all this and I would like to get out
and see what it is like in Twenty-Five O Seven A.D."

"Of course, of course," says the first doctor who is the one who
brought me to the hospital. "It is very thoughtless of us. I shall get
your instrument and you can come home with me until you are able to
adjust yourself to our way of living. It will be a great pleasure to
show you what we have accomplished in the time since you can remember,
though I must say that none of us has done what you have."

He laughs a little at that, and I figure he is a nice guy, so I say I
will be happy to accept his offer.

I go home with him and he introduces me to his wife who is a very nice
appearing female. He tells her all about me and he keeps saying how
remarkable it is all the time.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the next morning when I come down to breakfast that I meet the
doctor's daughter, who is a very lovely little number of about twenty,
and I see that my stay is going to be a very pleasant one indeed.

She says, "Dad has been telling me all about you, Mr. McRae, and I'm
going to see to it that you really see the New York of Twenty-Five
O Seven. He wants to drag you to a lot of stuffy old lectures and
scientific conventions, and exhibits you like a freak, but I'm taking
charge today."

I remark that that will be fine.

Well, we start right out, and it is amazing what has been done in my
absence. Ann--that is the little number's name--tells me about the
change in one thing and another; they are now taking vacations on Venus
and Mars, and it is merely a matter of a couple of hours to get to San
Francisco or London. Of course this is all very interesting, but I am
interested in what they are doing in the musical line. I tell Ann this.

"We are in luck," she says, "for there is a concert tonight up in
Albany and you will be able to hear all the finest music there."

"I do not wish to hear the long hairs play," I tell her. "Let us go
down along Fifty-Second Street and listen to a little barrelhouse. That
is my racket."

"There is no musical organization on Fifty-Second Street," Ann says.
"We do all our listening and looking at concerts like this one in
Albany, and it is the only sort of music we have."

By this time we are home, so I ask Ann if she would like to hear how
we played it back in the Twentieth Century. She replies that she
would, but not to let her father, the doc, know about it because he
is something of a bug on the modern music and considers the old style
quite degenerate.

I laugh at this. "What he means by the old style is probably something
I have never heard," I say. "You must remember that I am almost six
hundred years old, so my style is practically antique. Why, your father
did not even know that my horn was a musical instrument until I told
him my story, and it is indeed a shame that there are not a few old
Beiderbecke platters around so you all could hear what you've been
missing."

Well, I have not played the old slush pump since I escaped from the
fourth dimension, so I am careful when I pick it up, but after I have
tried a few runs I say I am all set. Ann is very curious, and she makes
me tell her how it works, as it seems they use instruments altogether
different in these concerts we are going to. I explain how the wind
goes around and all, and then I move into _I'm Getting Sentimental Over
You_. I am very mellow, and T. Dorsey couldn't have sounded any better
in the little concert I give. Ann is very overcome.

"It is beautiful," she says when I have finished. "Are there words to
it?"

I tell her there are, but that I do not know them, so she hums softly
as I take another chorus. She has a lovely voice, and I say that
tomorrow I will write down the words to some other numbers and let her
practice them with me.

When the doctor hears we are going to the concert that evening, he says
that he wishes to come along. We get to Albany in about five minutes,
so fast that I see nothing in the journey once we have left the New
York airport where the doc keeps his plane, and we enter the auditorium
in perfect time. As we go in, I am very surprised to see everyone
staring at me, since I have borrowed one of the doctor's suits for the
occasion and look just like anyone else. And then everyone stands and
begins cheering me until I am very embarrassed indeed. I look at Ann
and the doctor. They are both smiling.

"You know now that you have become a celebrity," whispers Ann. "We
didn't want to let you know right away, but the papers have been full
of your story."

So I smile and bow to the crowd, which keeps on clapping. It is very
pleasing.

Finally, however, the noise stops and the curtain raises. There on the
stage are about thirty or forty musicians, and behind them is a large
screen like in a moving picture house. Also there are a lot of electric
cords in sight, and I cannot figure what they are for until I notice
that each instrument is wired like an electric guitar.

When the conductor comes on, everybody claps a little more, and then
he turns to the orchestra. What I hear after that is something I never
expect to hear in my life. All those electric instruments begin to
vibrate, and on the screen behind them all sorts of shapes and colors
begin to flash and then disappear. This keeps up as long as the number
lasts.

"You are now seeing music as well as hearing it," the doctor tells me.

"I never saw any like that before," I say. "All the music I've ever
seen has been the regular dot variety; do the men play from those
flashes?"

"Why no," the doc smiles. "Those symbols that you see are the result
of the electric impulse as the musicians strike certain notes on their
instruments. They are never the same, and to me they are vastly
intriguing. Strictly, it was lousy."

"Oh," I say.

The following day Ann informs me that we are going on a picnic and asks
me will I please bring my trombone along and teach her a few songs.

About eleven o'clock we get in Ann's plane, and in no time we are down
in Virginia in a nice little spot by a small stream.

"I often come down here," Ann says. "It is one of the best places I
know."

There is something that seems awfully strange to me, and I finally
realize that it is the green grass of the meadow and the trees, after
the icky purple I have been used to for the past few months. I tell Ann
about this and about how beautiful the green looks, but I add that it
is still not as lovely as she is.

She says that is very nice, and then as I stand up from spreading the
picnic cloth, she is standing beside me, so I put my arms around her
and then I am kissing her and she is kissing me and it is very pleasant
indeed. I see that this is much better than any fourth dimension.

Finally we get around to eating the lunch Ann has brought, and I keep
saying how lovely she is, which I also mean. And she is saying I am
pretty fine too, and we pass some little time like this.

But after a while Ann says, "Mac, will you play for me now? I love to
hear you."

So I say I will if she will sing and I give her the words to _The St.
Louis Blues_, which I have written out. I hit it soft and easy for one
chorus to give her the melody, and then she takes the beat. Well, I
have not realized it before, but her voice is plenty schmalz and it is
a shame she is not living in my time, for she would be a cinch to panic
them anywhere.

After that she does _The Memphis Blues_ also, and she has me riding
beautifully to keep her up there. She is wonderful.

"You are the one who is wonderful," she says. "I have never heard music
like you can get out of that trombone. Play something else, darling,
won't you?" I slip into _If I Could Shimmy Like My Sister Kate_, and as
I play, Ann moves over beside me.

"Lovely," she whispers.

With that I am really carried away and I hear her humming softly as I
modulate into _Tea for Two_. I am giving it a real ride, and then I
feel it coming over me again. I am in a panic. I try to stop playing,
but I can't, and my body is vibrating something terrible.

I dimly hear Ann crying, "Mac, Mac, ..." as I sink off.

That is the last I can remember....

       *       *       *       *       *

When I come out of it this time, someone is pounding me on the back.

"Ann?" I say hopefully, but I know inside that it will be useless.

"Beautiful going, Mac. Beautiful," someone is saying.

"What?" I ask blankly.

"That _Stardust_. Boy, you were really out of the world on that one."

Then I open my eyes and look up. It is Ernie Martin, our sax player,
who has the chair next to me in Benny's.

I look around. I am back in Benny's. As I put down my slip-horn there
is a scattering of applause from the tables.

Someone shouts at me. I close my eyes, but the noise is still there. I
keep my eyes closed, and then I hear music.

Ernie is hitting me with his elbow.

"Get in," he says.

I hear the boys beating out _Rosetta_.

"Take it up," say Ernie. "Get hep, kid."

"Me?" I says sort of foggy like. "Oh, no--not me. Leastways not
tonight."

I pick up old Susie and walk to the door. I wonder if maybe there's
such a thing as being too hep.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BAND PLAYED ON ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
