The Project Gutenberg eBook of Out of the sea, by Leigh Brackett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Out of the sea

Author: Leigh Brackett

Release Date: August 9, 2022 [eBook #68718]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUT OF THE SEA ***





                            OUT OF THE SEA

                           By Leigh Brackett

           [Transcriber’s Note: This etext was produced from
                    Astonishing Stories, June 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                              CHAPTER ONE

                         The Hordes from Below


Anyone but Webb Fallon would have been worried sick. He was down to his
last five dollars and quart of Scotch. His girl Madge had sketched him
categorically in vitriol, and married somebody else. His job on the
Los Angeles _Observer_ was, like all the jobs he’d ever had, finally,
definitely, and for all time, cancelled.

Being Webb Fallon, he was playing a fast game of doubles on the
volley-ball court at Santa Monica Beach, letting the sun and the salt
air clear off a hangover.

When he came off the court, feeling fine and heading for the water, big
Chuck Weigal called to him.

“So the _Observer_ finally got wise to you, huh? How come?”

Fallon grinned, his teeth white against the mahogany burn of his
hard, lean oval face. His corded body gleamed in the hot sun, and his
slanting grey-green eyes were mockingly bright.

“If you must know,” he said, “I was busy drowning my sorrows on the
night of the big quake, two weeks ago. I didn’t know anything about it
until I read the papers next morning. The boss seemed to think I was a
little--er--negligent.”

Weigal grunted. “I don’t wonder. A quake as bad as the ’Frisco one, and
you sleep through it! Phew!”

Fallon grinned, and went on. About half-way down the beach a bright
yellow bathing suit caught his eye. He whistled softly and followed it
into the water. After all, now that Madge was gone....

He knew the girl by sight. Fallon had an eye for blonde hair and
Diana-esque figures. That was one thing Madge and he had fought about.

The girl swam like a mermaid. Fallon lengthened his stroke, came up
beside her, and said, “Hello.”

She blinked salt water out of sapphire blue eyes and stared. “I know
you,” she said. “You’re Webb Fallon.”

“I’m flattered.”

“You needn’t be. I know a girl named Madge, too.”

“Oh.” Fallon’s grey-green eyes narrowed. His lean face looked suddenly
ugly, like a mean dog. Or more like a wolf, perhaps, with his thin
straight lips and slanting eyes.

“What did Madge tell you about me?” he asked softly.

“She said you were no good.” The blue eyes studied his face. “And,”
added the girl deliberately, “I think she was right.”

“Yeah?” said Fallon, very gently. He hadn’t yet got over his cold rage
at being jilted for a dull, prosperous prig. The girl’s face was like
a mask cut out of brown wood and set with hard sapphires. He made a
tigerish, instinctive movement toward it.

A wave took them unawares, knocked them together and down in a
struggling tangle. They broke water, gasping in the after-swirl.

Then, quite suddenly, the girl screamed.

It was a short scream, strangled with sea-water, but it set the hairs
prickling on Fallon’s neck. He looked past the girl, outward.

Something was rising out of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

Webb Fallon, standing shoulder-deep in the cold water, stared in a
temporary paralysis of shock. The thing simply couldn’t be.

There was a snout armed with a wicked sword. That and the head behind
it were recognizable as those of a swordfish. But the neck behind them
was long and powerful, and set on sloping shoulders. Members like
elongated fins just becoming legs churned the surface. A wholly piscine
tail whipped up gouts of spray behind the malformed silver body.

Fallon moved suddenly. He grabbed the girl and started toward shore.
The Thing emitted a whistling grunt and surged after them.

Waves struck them; the aftersuck pulled at their legs. They floundered,
like dreamers caught in nightmare swamps. And Fallon, through the
thrashing and the surf and the sea-water in his ears, began to hear
other sounds.

There was a vast stirring whisper, a waking and surging of things
driven up and out. There were overtones of cries from unearthly
throats. Presently, then, there were human screams.

Fallon’s toes found firm sand. Still clutching the girl, he splashed
through the shallows. He could hear the wallowing thunder of creatures
behind them, and knew that they had to run. But he faltered, staring,
and the girl made a little choked sound beside him.

The shallow margin of the sea was churned to froth by a nightmare
horde. The whole broad sweep of the beach was invaded by things that,
in that stunned moment, Fallon saw only as confused shadows.

He started to run, toward the hilly streets beyond the beach. The
creature with the swordfish snout was almost on them. A fish, out of
the sea! It reared its snaky neck and struck down.

Fallon dodged convulsively. The sword flashed down and buried itself in
the sand not five inches from his foot.

It never came out of the sand. A tail-less, stub-legged thing with
three rows of teeth in its shark-like jaws fastened onto the creature’s
neck, and there was hot mammalian blood spilling out.

They ran together, Fallon and the girl. The summer crowds filling
the beaches, the promenade, the hot-dog stands and bath-houses, were
fighting in blind panic up the narrow streets to the top of the bluff.
It was useless to try to get through. Fallon made for an apartment
house.

Briefly, in clear, bright colors, he saw isolated scenes. A starfish
twenty feet across wrapping itself around a woman and her stupefied
child. A vast red crab pulling a man to bits with its claws. Something
that might once have been an octopus walking on four spidery legs, its
remaining tentacles plucking curiously at the volley-ball net that
barred its way.

The din of screaming and alien cries, the roar of the crowds and the
slippery, thrashing bodies melted into dull confusion. Fallon and the
girl got through, somehow, to the comparative safety of the apartment
house lobby.

They found an empty place by a bay window and stopped. Fallon’s legs
were sagging, and his heart was a leaping pain. The girl crumpled up
against him.

They stared out of the window, dazed, detached, like spectators
watching an imaginative motion-picture and not believing it.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was carnage outside, on the broad sunlit beach. Men and women and
children died, some caught directly, others trampled down and unable to
escape. But more than men were dying.

Things fought and ate each other. Things of mad distortion of familiar
shapes. Things unlike any living creature. Normal creatures grown out
of all sanity. But all coming, coming, coming, like a living tidal wave.

The window went in with a crash. A woman’s painted, shrieking face
showed briefly and was gone, pulled away by a simple marine worm grown
long as a man. The breeze brought Fallon the stench of blood and fish,
drowning the clean salt smell.

“We’ve got to get out of here,” he said. “Come on.”

The girl came, numbly. Neither spoke. There was, somehow, nothing to
say. Fallon took down a heavy metal curtain rod, holding it like a club.

The front doors had broken in. People trampled through in the blind
strength of terror. Fallon shrugged.

“No way to get past them,” he said. “Stay close to me. And for God’s
sake, don’t fall down.”

The girl’s wet blonde head nodded. She took hold of the waistband of
his trunks, and her hand was like ice against his spine.

Out through broken doors into a narrow street, and then the crowd
spread out a little, surging up a hillside. Police sirens were
beginning to wail up in the town.

Down below, the beaches were cleared of people. And still the things
came in from the sea. Fallon could see over the Santa Monica Pier now,
and the broad sweep of sand back of the yacht harbor was black with
surging bodies.

Most of the yachts were sunk. The bell-buoy had stopped ringing.

The sunlight was suddenly dim. Fallon looked up. His grey-green eyes
widened, and his teeth showed white in a snarl of fear.

Thundering in on queer heavy wings, their bodies hiding the sun, were
beasts that stopped his heart in cold terror.

They had changed, of course. The bat-like wings had been broadened
and strengthened. They must, like the other sea-born monsters, have
developed lungs.

But the size was still there! Five to ten feet in wing-spread--and
behind, the thin, deadly, whip-like tails.

Rays! The queer creatures that fly bat-like under water--now thundering
like giant bats through the air!

There were flying fish wheeling round them like queer rigid birds. They
had grown legs like little dragons, and long tails.

A pair of huge eels slid over the rough earth, pulled down a man and
fought over the body. Policemen began to appear, and there was a
popping of guns. The sirens made a mad skirling above the din.

Some of the rays swooped to the crowded beach. Others came on, scenting
human food.

Guns began to crack from the cliff-tops, from the windows of apartment
houses. Fallon caught the chatter of sub-machine guns. One of the rays
was struck almost overhead.

It went out of control like a fantastic plane and crashed into the
hillside, just behind Fallon and the girl. Men died shrieking under
its twenty-foot, triangular bulk.

It made a convulsive leap.

The girl slipped in the loose rubble, and lost her hold on Fallon. The
broad tentacles on the ray’s head closed in like the horns of a half
moon, folding the girl in a narrowing circle of death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fallon raised his iron curtain rod. He was irrationally conscious,
with a detached fragment of his brain, of the girl’s sapphire eyes and
the lovely strength of her body. Her face was set with terror, but she
didn’t scream. She fought.

Something turned over in Fallon’s heart, something buried and
unfamiliar. Something that had never stirred for Madge. He stepped in.
The bar swung up, slashed down.

The leathery skin split, but still the feelers hugged the girl closer.
The great ray heaved convulsively, and something whistled past Fallon’s
head. It struck him across the shoulders, and laid him in dazed agony
in the dirt.

The creature’s tail, lashing like a thin long whip.

Webb Fallon got up slowly. His back was numb. There was hot blood
flooding across his skin. The girl’s eyes were blue and wide, fixed on
him. Terribly fixed. She had stopped fighting.

Fallon found an eye, set back on one of the tentacles. He set the end
of the iron rod against it, and thrust downward....

Whether it was the rod, or the initial bullet, Fallon never knew, but
the tentacles relaxed. The girl rose and came toward him, and together
they went up the hill.

They were still together when sweating volunteers picked them up and
carried them back into the town.

Fallon came to before they finished sewing up his back. The emergency
hospital was jammed. The staff worked in a kind of quiet frenzy, with
a devil’s symphony of hysteria beating up against the windows of the
wards.

They hadn’t any place to keep Fallon. They taped his shoulders into a
kind of harness to keep the wound closed, and sent him out.

The girl was waiting for him in the areaway, huddled in a blanket. They
had given Fallon one, too, but his cotton trunks were still clammy cold
against him. He stood looking down at the girl, his short brown hair
unkempt, the hard lines of his face showing sharp and haggard.

“Well,” he said. “What are you waiting for?”

“To thank you. You saved my life.”

“You’re welcome,” said Fallon. “Now you’d better go before I
contaminate you.”

“That’s not fair. I am grateful, Webb. Truly grateful.”

Fallon would have shrugged, but it hurt. “All right,” he said wearily.
“You can tell Madge what a little hero I was.”

“Please don’t leave me,” she whispered. “I haven’t any place to go. All
my clothes and money were in the apartment.”

He looked at her, his eyes cold and probing. Brief disappointment
touched him, and he was surprised at himself. Then he went deeper, into
the clear sapphire eyes, and was ashamed--which surprised him even more.

“What’s your name?” he asked. “And why haven’t you fainted?”

“Joan Daniels,” she said. “And I haven’t had time.”

Fallon smiled. “Give me your shoulder, Joan,” he said, and they went
out.




                              CHAPTER TWO

                        Catastrophe--or Weapon?


Santa Monica was a city under attack. Sweating policemen struggled
with solid jams of cars driven by wild-eyed madmen. Horns hooted and
blared. And through it all, like banshees screaming with eldritch
mirth, the sirens wailed.

“They’ll declare martial law,” said Fallon. “I wonder how long they can
hold those things back?”

“Webb,” whispered Joan, “what _are_ those things?”

Strangely, they hadn’t asked that before.

They’d hardly had time even to think it.

Fallon shook his head. “God knows. But it’s going to get worse. Hear
that gunfire? My apartment isn’t far from here. We’ll get some clothes
and a drink, and then....”

It was growing dark when they came out again. Fallon felt better, with
a lot of brandy inside him and some warm clothes. Joan had a pair of
his slacks and a heavy sweater.

He grinned, and said, “Those never looked as nice on me.”

Soldiers were throwing up barricades in the streets. The windows of
Corbin’s big department store were shattered, the bodies of dead rays
lying in the debris. The rattle of gunfire was hotter, and much closer.

“They’re being driven back,” murmured Fallon.

A squadron of bombers droned over, and presently there was the _crump_
and roar of high explosives along the beaches. The streets were fairly
clear now, except for stragglers and laden ambulances, and the thinning
groups of dead.

Fallon thought what must be happening in the towns farther south, with
their flat low beaches and flimsy houses. How far did this invasion
extend? What was it? And how long would it last?

He got his car out of the garage behind the apartment house. Joan took
the wheel, and he lay down on his stomach on the back seat.

His back hurt like hell.

“One good thing,” he remarked wryly. “The finance company won’t be
chasing me through this. Just go where the traffic looks lightest, and
shout if you need me.”

He went to sleep.

It was morning when he woke. Joan was asleep on the front seat, curled
up under a blanket. She had spread one over him, too.

Fallon smiled, and looked out.

The first thing he noticed was the unfamiliar roar of motors overhead,
and the faint crackling undertone of gunfire. They were still under
siege, then, and the defenders were still giving ground.

They were parked on Hollywood Boulevard near Vine. Crowds of
white-faced, nervous people huddled along the streets. The only
activity was around the newsboys.

Fallon got out, stiff and cursing, and went to buy a paper. An extra
arrived before he got there. The boy ripped open the bundle, let out a
startled squawk, and began to yell at the top of his lungs.

A low, angry roar spread down the boulevard. Fallon got a paper, and
smiled a white-toothed, ugly smile. He shook Joan awake and gave her
the paper.

“There’s your answer. Read it.”

       *       *       *       *       *

She read aloud: “Japs Claim Sea Invasion Their Secret Weapon!

“Only a few minutes ago, the Amalgamated Press recorded an official
broadcast from Tokyo, declaring that the fantastic wave of monsters
which have sprung from the ocean at many points along the Western Coast
was a new war-weapon of the Axis which would cause the annihilation of
American and world-wide democratic civilization.

“The broadcast, an official High Command communique, said in part: ‘The
Pacific is wholly in our hands. American naval bases throughout the
ocean are useless, and the fleet where it still exists is isolated. In
all cases our new weapon has succeeded. The Pacific states, with the
islands, come within our natural sphere of influence. We advise them to
submit peacefully.’”

Joan Daniels looked up at Fallon. At first there was only stunned
pallor in her face. Then the color came, dark and slow.

“Submit peacefully!” she whispered. “So that’s it. A cowardly,
fiendish, utterly terrible perversion of warfare--something so horrible
that it....”

“Yeah,” said Fallon. “Save it.”

He was leafing through the paper. There was a lot more--hurried
opinions by experts, guesses, conjectures, and a few facts.

Fallon said flatly. “They seem to be telling the truth. Fragmentary
radio messages have come in from the Pacific. Monsters attacked just
as suddenly as they did here, and at about the same time. They simply
clogged the guns, smothered the men, and wrecked ground equipment by
sheer weight of numbers.”

Joan shuddered. “You wouldn’t think....”

“No,” grunted Fallon. “You wouldn’t.” He flung the paper down. “Yah!
Not an eyewitness account in the whole rag!”

Joan looked at him thoughtfully. She said, “Well....”

“They fired me once,” he snarled. “Why should I crawl back?”

“It was your own fault, Webb. You know it.”

He turned on her, and again his face had the look of a mean dog.
“That,” he said, “is none of your damned business.”

She faced him stubbornly, her sapphire eyes meeting his slitted
grey-green ones with just a hint of anger.

“You wouldn’t be a bad sort, Webb,” she said steadily, “if you weren’t
so lazy and so hell-fired selfish!”

Cold rage rose in him, the rage that had shaken him when Madge told him
she was through. His hands closed into brown, ugly fists.

Joan met him look for look, her bright hair tangling over the collar
of his sweater, the strong brown curves of cheek and throat catching
the early sunlight. And again, as it had in that moment on the cliff,
something turned over in Fallon’s heart.

“What do you care,” he whispered, “whether I am or not?”

For the first time her gaze flickered, and something warmer than the
sunlight touched her skin.

“You saved my life,” she said. “I feel responsible for you.”

Fallon stared. Then, quite suddenly, he laughed. “You fool,” he
whispered. “You damned little fool!”

He kissed her. And he kissed her gently, as he had never kissed Madge.

They got breakfast. After that, Fallon knew, they should have gone
east, with the tense, crawling hordes of refugees. But somehow he
couldn’t go. The distant gunfire drew him, the stubborn, desperate
planes.

They went back, toward the hills of Bel Air. After all, there was
plenty of time to run.

Things progressed as he had thought they would. Martial law was
declared. An orderly evacuation of outlying towns was going forward.
Fallon got through the police lines with a glib lie about an invalid
brother. It wasn’t hard--there was no danger yet the way he was going,
and the police were badly overburdened.

Fallon kept the radio on as he drove. There was a lot of wild talk--it
was too early yet for censorship. A big naval battle east of Wake
Island, another near the Aleutians. The defense, for the present, was
getting nowhere.

Up on the crest of a sun-seared hill, using powerful glasses from his
car, Fallon shook his head with a slow finality.

The morning mists were clearing. He had an unobstructed view of
Hollywood, Beverly Hills, the vast bowl of land sloping away to the
sea. The broad boulevards to the east were clogged with solid black
streams. And to the west....

       *       *       *       *       *

To the west there were barricades. There were clouds of powder smoke,
and fleets of low-flying planes. And there was something else.

Something like a sluggish, devouring tide, lapping at the walls of the
huge M-G-M studios in Culver City, swamping the tarmac at Clover Field,
flowing resistlessly on and on.

Bombs tore great holes in the restless sea, but they flowed in upon
themselves and were filled. Big guns ripped and slashed at the swarming
creatures. Many died. But there were always more. Many, many more.

The shallow margin of the distant ocean was still churned to froth.
Still the things came out of it, surging up and on.

Fighting, spawning, dying--and advancing.

Joan Daniels pressed close against him, shuddering. “It just isn’t
possible, Webb! Bombers, artillery, tanks, trained soldiers. And we
can’t stop them!” She stiffened suddenly. “Webb!” she cried. “Look
there!”

Where the bombers swooped through the smoke, another fleet was coming.
A fleet of flat triangular bodies with bat-like wings, in numbers that
clouded the sun. Rays, blind and savage and utterly uncaring.

Machine guns brought them down by the hundred, but more of them came.
They crashed into heavy ships, fouled propellers, broke controls.

Joan looked away, “And there are so few planes,” she whispered.

Fallon nodded. “The whole coast is under attack, remember, from
Vancouver to Mexico. There just aren’t enough men, guns, or planes to
go round. More are coming from the east, but....” He shrugged and was
silent.

“Then--then you think we’ll have to surrender?”

“Doesn’t look hopeful, does it? Japan in control of the Pacific, and
this here. We’ll hold out for a while, of course. But suppose these
things come out of the sea indefinitely?”

“We’ve got to assume they can.” Joan’s eyes were dark and very tired.
“What’s to prevent Japan from loaning her weapon to her friends? Think
of these things swarming in over England.”

“War,” said Fallon somberly. “A hell of a long, rotten war.”

He leaned against the car, his grey-green eyes half closed. The breeze
came in from the sea, heavy with the stench of amphibian bodies. The
radio droned on. The single deep line between Fallon’s straight brows
grew deeper. He began to talk, slowly, to Joan.

“The experts say that the Little Brown Brothers must have some kind
of a movable projector capable of producing rays which upset the
evolutionary balance and cause abnormal growth. Rays like hard X-rays,
or the cosmic rays that govern reproduction.

“California Tech has dissected several types of monsters. They say that
individual cell groups are affected, causing spontaneous growth in
living individuals, and that metabolism has been enormously speeded, so
that life-cycles which normally took years now take only a few weeks.

“They also say that huge numbers--the bulk of these creatures--are
mutants, new individuals changed in the egg or the reproductive cell.
All these monsters are growing and spawning at a terrific tempo.
Billions of eggs, laid and hatched, even with the high mortality rate.

“They’re evolving, at a fantastic rate of speed. They’re growing legs
and lungs and becoming mammals. They’re coming out of the sea, just
as our ancestors did millions of years ago. They’re coming fast, and
they’re hungry.”

He fixed the girl suddenly with a bright, sharp stare.

“Do you think a thing as big as that is man-made?”

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a grim, stony weariness in her face. “The Japanese say so.
What other explanation is there?”

“But,” said Fallon, “why not South America, too?”

“They were probably afraid the monsters might get out of hand and
tackle their own people,” said Joan bitterly.

“Maybe.” Again Fallon’s eyes were distant. Then he clapped his hands
sharply and sprang up. “Yes! Got it, Joan!”

The quick motion ripped at the wound across his back. He swayed and
caught her shoulder, but he didn’t stop talking.

“Einar Bjarnsson! He was my last job. I interviewed him the day before
the quake. I want to see him, Joan. Now!”

She took his wrists, half frightened. “What is it, Webb?”

“Listen,” he said softly. “Remember the radio calls from the islands?
The monsters came out of the west here, didn’t they? Well, out
there--_they came out of the east_!”

Fallon explained, as he sent the car screaming perilously along winding
mountain roads. Einar Bjarnsson was an expert on undersea life. He had
charted tide paths and sub-sea ‘rivers,’ mapped the continental shelves
and the great deeps.

Bjarnsson’s recent exploration had been in the Pacific, using a
specially constructed small submarine. His findings on deep-sea
phenomena had occupied space in scientific journals and the Sunday
supplements of newspapers throughout the world.

Two days before the big quake Einar Bjarnsson returned to the place
he called home--a small bachelor cabin on a hilltop, crammed with
scientific traps and trophies of his exploring. Webb Fallon drew the
assignment of interviewing him.

“I was pretty sore at Madge, then,” Fallon confessed, “and I had a
ferocious hangover. The interview didn’t go so well. But I remember
Bjarnsson mentioning something about a volcanic formation quite close
to the Pacific coast--something nobody had noticed before. It was
apparently extinct, and the only thing that made it notable was its
rather unusual conformation.”

Joan stared at him. “What’s that got to do with anything?”

Fallon shrugged. “Maybe nothing. Only I recall that the epicenter of
the recent quake was somewhere in the vicinity of Bjarnsson’s volcano.
I remember that damned quake quite well, because it cost me my job.”

Joan opened her mouth and closed it again, hard. Fallon grinned.

“You were going to tell me it wasn’t the quake, but my own bad
character,” he said mockingly.

There was something grim in the upthrust lines of her jaw. “I can’t
make you out, Webb,” she said quietly. “Sometimes I think there’s good
stuff in you--and then I think Madge was right!”

Fallon’s dark oval face went ugly, and he didn’t speak again until
Bjarnsson’s house came in sight.




                             CHAPTER THREE

                         Bjarnsson’s Submarine


Fallon stopped the car and got out stiffly, feeling suddenly tired and
disinterested. He hesitated. Why bother with a crazy hunch? The rolling
crash of gunfire was getting closer. Why not forget the whole thing and
go while the going was good?

He realized that Joan was watching him with sapphire eyes grown puzzled
and hard. “Damn it!” he snarled. “Stop looking at me as though I were a
bug under glass!”

Joan said, “Is that Bjarnsson in the doorway?”

For the third time Fallon’s hands clenched in anger. Then he turned
sharply, white about the lips with the pain it cost him, and strode up
to the small rustic cabin.

Einar Bjarnsson remembered him. He stood aside, a tall stooped man with
massive shoulders and a gaunt, cragged face. Coarse fair hair shot
with grey hung in his eyes, which were small and the color of frozen
sea-water.

He said, in a deep, slow voice, “Come in. I have been watching through
my telescope. Most interesting. But it gets too close now. I am
surprised you are here. Duty to your paper, eh?”

Fallon let it pass. He might get more out of Bjarnsson if the explorer
thought he was still with the _Observer_. And then the thought struck
him--what was he going to do if his hunch was right?

Nothing. He had no influence. The statesmen were handling things.
Suppose Japan did take the Pacific States? Suppose there was a war? He
couldn’t do anything about it. Let the big boys worry. There’d be a
beach somewhere that he could comb in peace.

He made a half turn to go out again. Then he caught sight of a map on
the far wall--a map of the Pacific.

Something took him to it. He put his finger on a spot north and east of
the Hawaiian Islands. And even then he couldn’t have said why he asked
his question.

“Your volcanic formation was about here, wasn’t it, Bjarnsson?”

The tall Norseman stared at him with cold shrewd eyes. “Yes. Why?”

“Look here.” Fallon drew a rough circle with his fingertip, touching
the Pacific Coast, swinging across the ocean through the Gilberts and
the Marshalls, touching Wake, and curving up again to Vancouver.

“The volcanic formation is the center of that circle,” Fallon said.
“It was also the epicenter of the recent quake, according to Cal-Tech
seismologists. That’s what gave me the hunch. The monsters seem to be
fanning out in a circle from some central point located about there.”

“That is already explained,” said Bjarnsson. “The Japanese may have
their projector located there. And why not?”

“No reason at all,” Fallon admitted. “You mentioned, in your interview,
something about a Japanese ocean survey ship coming up just as you
left. That ship might still have been near there at the time of the
quake, mightn’t it?”

“It is possible. Go on.” There was a little sharp flame flickering in
Bjarnsson’s eyes.

Fallon said, “Could these super-evolutionary rays be caused by volcanic
action?”

Bjarnsson’s grey-blond shaggy brows met, and the flame was sharper in
his eyes. “Fantastic. But so is this whole affair.... Yes! If an area
of intense radioactivity were uncovered by an earth-shift, the sea and
all that swims in it might be affected.”

“Ah!” Fallon’s lips were drawn in a tight grin. “Suppose the officers
of the Japanese ship saw the beginnings of the effect. Suppose they
radioed home, and someone did some quick thinking. Suppose, in short,
that they’re lying.”

“_Ja_,” whispered Bjarnsson. “Let us think.”

“I’ve already thought,” said Fallon. “Two weeks would give them time
to arrange everything. The important thing is this--if the force is
man-made, even destroying the projector won’t do any good. They’ll
have others. But if it were a natural force, the psychological aspect
of the thing alone would be tremendous. There’d be a chance of doing
something.”

The explorer’s deep light eyes glinted. “Our people would fight better
if it was something they _could_ fight.” He swung to the big telescope
mounted in the west windows. “Bah! It gets worse. Those creatures, they
don’t know when they are dead. And the way they come! We must go soon.”

       *       *       *       *       *

He swung back to Fallon. “But how to find out if you are right?”

“You have a submarine,” said Fallon.

“So has the Navy.”

“But they’re all needed. Yours can go where the big ones can’t--and
go deeper. These monsters are all heading for land, which means they
gravitate to the surface. You might get through below.”

“Yes.” Bjarnsson strode up and down the cluttered room. “We could take
a depth charge. If we found the volcano to be the cause, we might close
the fissure.

“Time, Fallon! That is the thing. A few days, a few weeks, and the
sheer pressure of these hordes will have forced the defenders back to
the mountains and the deserts. Civilian morale will break.”

He stopped, making a sharp gesture of futility. “I am forgetting. The
radiations, Fallon. Without proper insulation, we would evolve like the
sea-things. And it would take many days to make lead armor for us, even
if we could get anyone to do the work.”

“Radiations,” said Fallon slowly. “Yeah. I’d forgotten that. Well, that
stops that. Projector or volcano, you’d never reach it.”

He brushed a hand across his eyes, all his brief enthusiasm burned
away. He was getting like that. He wished he had a drink.

“Probably all moonshine, anyway,” he said. “Anyhow, there’s nothing we
can do about it.”

“Nothing!” Joan Daniels spoke so sharply that both men started. “You
mean you’re not even going to try?”

“Bjarnsson can pass the idea along for what it’s worth.”

“You know what that means, Webb! The idea would be either laughed at or
pigeonholed, especially with the Jap propagandists doing such a good
job. The government’s got a war on its hands. Even if someone did pay
attention, nothing would be done until too late. It never is.”

She gripped his arms, looking up at him with eyes like sea-blue swords.

“If there’s a bare chance of saving them, Webb, you’ve got to take it!”

Fallon looked down at her, his wolf’s eyes narrowed.

“Listen,” he said. “I’m not a fiction hero. We’ve got an Army, a Navy,
an air force, and a secret service. They’re getting paid for risking
their necks. Let them worry. I had a hunch, which may not be worth a
dime. I passed it along. Now I’m going to clear out, before anything
more happens to me.”

Joan’s face was cut, sharp and bitter, from brown wood. Her eyes had
fire in them, way back.

“Your logic,” she whispered, “is flawless.”

“I saved your life,” said Fallon brutally. “What more do you want?”

The color drained from the brown wood, leaving it marble. Only the
angry fires in her eyes lived, in the pale hard stone.

“You’re remembering how I kissed you,” said Fallon, so softly that he
hardly spoke at all. “I don’t know why I did. I don’t know why I came
here. I don’t know....”

He stopped and turned to the door. Bjarnsson, very quietly, was picking
up the phone. Fallon took the knob and turned it.

“I am sorry,” said a quiet, sibilant voice. “You cannot leave. And you,
sir--put down that telephone.”

       *       *       *       *       *

A small neat man with a yellow face stood on the threshold. He was
holding a small, neat, efficient-looking automatic. Fallon backed into
the room, hearing the click of the cradle as the phone went down.

“You are Einar Bjarnsson?” The question was toneless and purely
rhetorical. The black eyes had seen the whole room in one swift flick.
“I am Kashimo,” said the man, and waited.

“Fallon,” Webb said easily. “This is Miss Daniels. We just dropped in
for a chat. Mind if we go now?”

“I am afraid ...” said Kashimo, and spread his hands. “I have been
discourteous enough to eavesdrop. You have an inventive mind, Mr.
Fallon. An inaccurate mind, but one that might prove disturbing to our
plans.”

“Don’t worry,” grunted Fallon. “I have no business whatsoever, and I
attend to it closely. Your plans don’t matter to me at all.”

“Indeed.” Kashimo studied him with black, bright eyes. “You are either
a liar or a disgrace to your country, Mr. Fallon. But I may not take
chances. You and the young lady I must, sadly, cancel out.”

“And I?” Bjarnsson asked.

“You come with us,” said Kashimo. Fallon saw four other small neat men
outside, close behind their leader in the doorway.

He said, “What do you mean, ‘cancel out’?” He knew, before Kashimo
moved his automatic.

Kashimo said, “Mr. Bjarnsson, please to move out of the line of fire.”

No one moved. The room was still, except for Joan’s quick-caught
breath. And then motion beyond the west windows caught Fallon’s eye. A
colder fear crawled in his heart, but his voice surprised him, it was
so steady.

“Kashimo. Look out there.”

The bright black eyes flicked warily aside. They widened sharply, and
the cords went slack about the jaw. Fallon sprang.

He had forgotten the wound across his back. The shock of his body
striking Kashimo turned him sick and faint. He knew that the little man
fell, staggering the others so close behind him.

He knew that Joan Daniels was shouting, and that Bjarnsson had caught
up an ebony war-club and was using it. Shots boomed in his ears. But
one sound kept him from fainting--the thunder of slow relentless giant
wings.

He got up in unsteady darkness. A round sallow face appeared. He struck
at it. Bone cracked under his knuckles, and the face vanished. Fallon
found a wall and clung to it.

Hands gripped his ankle--Kashimo’s hands. Bjarnsson was outside mopping
up. Fallon braced himself and drew his foot back. His toe caught
Kashimo solidly under the angle of the jaw.

“Joan,” said Fallon. The wings were thundering closer. Joan didn’t
answer. A sort of queer panic filled Fallon.

“Joan!” he cried. “Joan!”

“Here I am, Webb.” She came from beyond the door, with a heavy little
idol in her hand. It had blood on it. Her golden hair was tumbled and
her neck was bleeding where a bullet had creased it.

Fallon caught her. He felt her wince under his hands. He didn’t know
quite what he wanted, except that she must be safe.

He only said, “Hurry, before those things get here.”

The throb of wings was deafening. Bjarnsson came in, swinging his club.
His cragged face was bloody, but his pale eyes blazed.

“Good man, Fallon,” he grunted. “All right, let’s go. There’s a cave
below here. Take their guns, young lady. We’ll need them.”

The sky beyond the west windows was clogged with huge black shapes.
Fallon remembered the smashed windows of the department store in Santa
Monica. “Joan,” he said, “come here.”

He put his arm around her shoulders. He might have walked all right
without her, but somehow he wanted her there.

       *       *       *       *       *

They dropped down the other side of the hill into a little brush-choked
cleft. There was a shallow cave at one end.

“There go my windows,” said Bjarnsson, and cursed in Swedish. “In with
you, before those flying devils find us.”

They were well hidden. Chances were the rays would go right over
them--after they’d finished off Kashimo and his men. Bjarnsson said
softly, “What did they want with me, Fallon?”

“There’s only one thing they couldn’t get from somebody else,” returned
Fallon. “Your submarine.”

“Yes. The mechanisms are of my own design. They would need me to
operate it. Does that mean we are right about the volcano?”

“Maybe. They’d have made plans to control it, of course. Or they may
want your ship merely as a model.”

There was silence for a while. Outside, heavy wings began to beat
again. They came perilously low, went over, and were gone.

Einar Bjarnsson said quietly, “I’m going to take the chance, Fallon.
I’m going to try to get my ship through.”

“What about the radiations?”

“If Kashimo was planning to use the ship, he’ll have arranged for that.
Anyway, I’m going to see.” His ice-blue eyes stabbed at Fallon. “I
can’t do it alone.”

Joan Daniels said, “I’ll go.”

Bjarnsson’s eyes flicked from one to the other. Fallon’s face was dark
and almost dangerous.

“Wait a minute,” he said gently.

Joan faced him. “I thought you were going away.”

“I’ve changed my mind.” Looking at her, at her blue, unsympathetic
eyes, Fallon wondered if he really had. Perhaps the stunning shock of
all that had happened had unsettled him.

Joan put both hands on his shoulders and looked straight into his eyes.
“What kind of a man are you, Webb Fallon?”

“God knows,” he said. “Where do you keep your boat, Bjarnsson?”

“In a private steel-and-concrete building at Wilmington. Some of the
improvements are of interest to certain people. I keep them locked
safely away. Or so I thought.”

Fallon rose stiffly. “Kashimo didn’t come in a car, that’s certain.
He’d have been arrested on sight. Any place for a plane to land near
here?”

The explorer shook his head. “Unless it could come straight down.”

Fallon snapped his finger. “A helicopter! That’s it.”

He led the way out. They found the ’copter on a small level space
beyond the shoulder of the hill. Fallon nodded.

“Ingenious little chaps. The ship’s painted like an Army plane. Any
pilot would think it was a special job and let it severely alone.” He
turned abruptly to Joan.

“Take my car,” he told her. “Get away from here, fast. Find someone in
authority and make him listen--just in case.”

She nodded. “Webb, why are you going?”

“Because there isn’t time to get anyone else,” he told her roughly.
“Because there’s a story there....”

He stopped, startled at what he had said. “Yes,” he said slowly, “a
story. My story. Oh hell, why did you have to come along?”

He put his hands suddenly back of her head and tilted her face up, his
fingers buried in the warm curls at the base of her neck.

“I was all set,” he whispered savagely. “I knew all the answers. And
then you showed up. If you hadn’t, I’d be half-way to Miami by now. I’d
still be sure of myself. I wouldn’t be so damned confused, thinking one
way and feeling another....”

She kissed him suddenly, warmly. “I’ll make somebody listen,” she said.
“And then I’ll wait--and pray.”

Then she was gone. In a minute he heard the car start.

“Come on,” he snarled at Bjarnsson. “I remember you said you fly.”




                             CHAPTER FOUR

                         A Dead Man Comes Back


It was a nightmare trip. The battle below was terribly clear. Twice
they dodged flights of the giant rays, saved only because the scent of
food kept the attention of the brutes on the ground.

The harbor basin at Wilmington was choked with slippery, struggling
beasts. There was hardly a sign of shipping. Bjarnsson made for the
flat top of a square building, completely surrounded.

A flight of rays went over just as they landed. A trap door in the roof
raised and was slammed shut again.

“Now,” said Fallon grimly, and jumped out.

They were almost to the trap when a ray sighted them. Fallon shot it
through the eye, but others followed. Bjarnsson wrenched up the trap. A
surprised yellow face peered up, vanished in a crimson smear.

Bjarnsson hauled the body out and threw it as far as he could. The rays
fought over it like monstrous gulls over a fish head.

Fallen retched and followed Bjarnsson down.

There were three other men in the building. One tried to shoot it out
and was killed. The others were mechanics, with no stomachs for the
guns.

They looked over the sub, a small stubby thing of unusual design, and
Bjarnsson nodded his gaunt shaggy head.

“These suits of leaded fabric,” he said. “One big, for me. The other
smaller, for Kashimo, perhaps. Can you get into it?”

Fallon grunted. “I guess so. Hey! Look there.”

“Ha! A depth charge, held in the claws I use for picking specimens from
the ocean floor. They have prepared well, Fallon.”

“You know what that means!” Fallon was aware of a forgotten, surging
excitement. His palms came together with a ringing crack.

“I was right! Kashimo was going to hold you here until the Government
capitulated. Then he was going out to shut off the power. There’s
no projector, Bjarnsson. It _was_ the volcano. If we can close that
fissure while there’s still resistance, we’ll have ’em licked!”

Bjarnsson’s ice-blue eyes fixed Fallon with a sharp, unwavering stare,
and he spoke slowly, calmly, almost without expression.

“It will take about three days to get there, working together. One fit
of cowardice or indecision, one display of nerves or temper may destroy
what slight chance we have.”

“You mean,” said Fallon, “you wish you had someone you could depend
on.” He smiled crookedly. “I’ll do my best, Bjarnsson.”

They struggled into the clumsy lead armor and shuffled into the small
control room of the submarine. Everything had been prepared in advance.
In a few seconds, automatic machinery was lowering the sub into its
slip.

Water slapped the hull. Bjarnsson started the motors. They went forward
slowly, through doors that opened electrically.

Ballast hissed and snarled into the tanks.

Bjarnsson said, “If we can get through this first pack, into deep
water, we may make it.” He pointed to a knife-switch. “Pull it.”

Fallon did. Nothing seemed to happen. Bjarnsson sat hunched over the
controls, cold blue eyes fixed on the periscope screen. Fallon had a
swift, horrible sense of suffocation--the steel wall of the sub curving
low over his helmeted head, the surge of huge floundering bodies in the
water outside.

Something struck the hull. The little ship canted. Fallon gripped his
seat with rigid, painful hands. Bjarnsson’s armored, unhuman shoulders
moved convulsively with effort. Fallon felt a raw panic scream rising
in his throat....

       *       *       *       *       *

He choked it back. Heavy muffled blows shook the submarine. The motors
churned and shook. Fallon was afraid they were going to stop. Sweat
dripped in his eyes, misted his helmet pane.

The screws labored on. Fallon heard the tanks filling, and knew that
they were going deeper. The blows on the hull grew fewer, farther
between. Fallon began to breath again.

Einar Bjarnsson relaxed, just a little. His voice came muffled by his
helmet. “The worst, Fallon--we’re through it.”

Fallon’s throat was as dry as his face was wet. “But how?”

“Sometimes, in the deeps, one meets creatures. Hungry creatures, as
large even as this ship. So I prepared the hull. That switch transforms
us into a travelling electric shock, strong enough to discourage almost
anything. I hoped it would get us through.”

Thinking of what might have happened, Fallon shut his jaw hard. His
voice was unnaturally steady as he asked, “What now?”

“Now you learn to operate the ship, in case something should happen to
me.” Bjarnsson’s small blue eyes glinted through his helmet pane. “Too
bad there is not a radio here, Fallon, so that you might broadcast as
we go. As it is, I fear the world may miss a very exciting story.”

“For God’s sake,” said Fallon wearily, and he wasn’t swearing. “Let’s
not make this any tougher. Okay. This is the master switch....”

In the next twenty-four hours, Fallon learned to handle the submarine
passably well. Built for a crew of two, the controls were fairly
simple, once explained. Nothing else was touched. The only extra switch
that mattered was the one that released the depth charge.

For an endless, monotonous hell, Fallon stood watch and watch about
with Bjarnsson, one at the controls, one operating the battery
of observation ’scopes, never sleeping. They saved on oxygen as
a precaution, which added to the suffocating discomfort of the
helmet-filters.

Black, close, nerve-rasping hours crawled by, became days. At last,
Fallon, bent over the ’scope screen, licked the sweat from his thin
lips and looked at Bjarnsson, a blurred dark hulk against the dim glow
of the half-seen instrument panel.

Fallon’s head ached. The hot stale air stank of oil. His body was tired
and cramped and sweat-drenched, and the wound across his shoulders
throbbed. He looked at the single narrow bunk.

There was nothing out there in the water but darkness. Even the
deep-sea fish had felt the impulse and avoided the sub. Fallon got up.

“Bjarnsson,” he said, “I’m going to sleep.”

The explorer half turned in his seat.

“_Ja?_” he said quietly.

“There’s nothing out there,” growled Fallon. “Why should I sit and
glare at that periscope?”

“Because,” Bjarnsson returned with ominous gentleness, “there might be
something. We will not reach the volcano for perhaps ten hours. You had
better watch.”

Fallon’s hard jaw set. “I can’t go any longer without sleep.”

Bjarnsson’s cragged face was flushed and greasy behind his helmet, but
his eyes were like glittering frost.

“All the whisky and the women,” he whispered. “They make you soft,
Fallon. The girl would have been better.”

A flashing glimpse of Joan as she had looked in the car that morning
crossed the eye of Fallon’s mind--the tumbled fair hair and the
sunlight warm on throat and cheek, and her voice saying, “You wouldn’t
be bad, Webb ... so lazy and so hell-fired selfish!”

He cursed and started forward. The dark blur of Bjarnsson rose,
blotting out the green glow. And then the panel light rose in a
shuddering arc.

Fallon thought for a moment that he was fainting. The low curve of the
hull spun about. He knew that he fell, and that he struck something,
or that something struck him. All orientation was lost. His helmet
rang against metal like a great gong, and then he was sliding down a
cluttered slope.

A blunt projection ripped across his back. Even through the leaded
suit, the pain of it made him scream. He heard the sound as a distant,
throttled echo. Then even the dim green light was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

The screen flickered abominably. It showed mostly a blurred mob of
people, trampling back and forth. Then it steadied and there was a
picture, in bright, gay colors.

A starfish twenty feet across wrapping itself around a woman and her
stupefied child.

“We saw that,” said Fallon. “On the beach. Remember?”

He thought Joan answered, but there was another picture. A vast red
crab, pulling a man to bits with its claws. And after that, the
shrieking woman outside the broken window, dragged down by a worm.

“Wonder who got those shots?” said Fallon. Again Joan answered, but he
didn’t hear her. The pictures moved more rapidly. Rays, black against
the blue sky. Planes falling. Guns firing and firing and choking to
silence. People, black endless streams of them, running, running,
running.

Joan pulled at him. Her face was strangely huge. Her eyes were as he
had first seen them, hard chips of sapphire. And at last he heard what
she was saying.

“Your fault, Webb Fallon. This might have been stopped. But you had to
sleep. You couldn’t take it. You’re no good, Webb. No good. No good....”

Her voice faded, mixed somehow with a deep throbbing noise. “Joan!” he
shouted. “Joan!” But her face faded too. The last he could see was her
eyes, hard and steady and deeply blue.

“Joan,” he whispered. There was a sound in his head like the tearing of
silk, a sensation of rushing upward. Then he was quite conscious, his
face pressed forward against his helmet and his body twisted, bruised
and painful.

The first thing he saw was Einar Bjarnsson sprawled on the floor
plates. A sharp point of metal had ripped his suit from neck to waist,
laying his chest bare.

For a moment of panic horror, Fallon sought for tears in his own suit.
There were none. He relaxed with a sob of relief, and looked up at the
low curve of the hull.

It was still whole. Fallon shuddered. What product of abnormal
evolution had attacked them in the moment that he had looked away?
Strange he hadn’t seen it coming, before.

The dim, still bulk of Einar Bjarnsson drew his gaze. Crouched there
on his knees, it seemed to Fallon that the whole universe drew in and
centered on that motionless body.

“I killed him,” Fallon whispered. “I looked away. I might have seen the
thing in time, but I looked away. I killed him.”

For a long time he couldn’t move. Then, like the swift stroke of a
knife, terror struck him.

He was alone under the sea.

He got up. The chronometer showed an elapsed time of nearly two hours.
The course, held by an Iron Mike, was steady. The beast that had
attacked them must have lost interest.

Fallon clung to a stanchion and thought, harder than he had ever
thought in his life.

He couldn’t go on by himself. There had to be two men, to gauge
distances, spot the best target, control the sub in the resultant
blast. Why couldn’t he forget the volcano? There were lots of islands
in the Pacific, beyond the affected sphere.

He could stay drunk on palm wine as well as Scotch.

He’d never see Joan again, of course. Joan, accusing, hard-eyed,
contemptuous. Joan, condemning him for murder....

Fallon laughed, a sharp, harsh bark. “Joan, hell! That was my own mind,
condemning me!”

       *       *       *       *       *

His gaze went back to Bjarnsson’s body, rolling slightly with the
motion of the ship. It boiled down to that. Murder. His careless,
selfish murder of Bjarnsson. The murder of countless civilians. War,
bitter, brutal, desperate.

Fallon drew a long, shuddering breath. His head dropped forward in his
helmet, and his slanting wolf’s eyes were closed. Then he turned and
sat down at the controls.

The single forward ’scope field gave him vision enough to steer.
Anything might attack from the sides or the stern--another beast grown
incredibly huge, but not yet a lung breather.

Alone, he probably wouldn’t succeed. He wouldn’t live to know whether
he had or not. His gloved hands clenched over the levers that would
change the course, send him away to safety.

Savagely he forced his hands away. He gripped the wheel. Time slid by
him, black and silent as the water outside. And then....

Something moved in the dark behind him.

Slowly, slowly, Fallon rose and turned. The veins of his lean face were
like knotted cords. The hard steel of the hull held him, tight and
close, smothering.

Blurred, faint movement. The soft scrape of metal against metal. He had
been so sure Bjarnsson was dead. He’d been dazed and sick, he hadn’t
looked closely. But he’d been sure. Bjarnsson, lying so still, with his
suit ripped open.

_His suit ripped open._ Volcanic rays would be seeping into his flesh.
Rays of change--perhaps they even brought the dead to life.

There was a grating clang, and suddenly Fallon screamed, a short choked
sound that hurt his throat.

Bjarnsson’s face looked at him. Bjarnsson’s face, with every gaunt
bone, every vein and muscle and convolution of the brain traced in
lines of cold white fire.

The shrouding leaden suit slipped from wide, stooped shoulders. The
heart beat in pulses of flame within the glowing cage of the ribs.
The coil and flow of muscles in arm and thigh was a living, beautiful
rhythm of light.

“Fallon,” said Einar Bjarnsson. “Turn back.”

The remembered voice, coming from that glowing, pulsing throat, was the
most horrible thing of all.

Fallon licked the cold sweat from his lips. “No,” he said.

“Turn back, or you will be killed.”

“It doesn’t matter,” whispered Fallon. “I’ve got to try.”

Bjarnsson laughed. Fallon could see his diaphragm contract in a surge
of flame, see the ripple of the laughter.

A wave of anger cut across Fallon’s terror, cold and sane.

“I did this to you, Bjarnsson,” he said. “I’m trying to make up for it.
I thought you were dead. Perhaps, if you put your armor back on, we can
patch it up somehow, and it may not be too late.”

“But it is too late. So, you blame yourself, eh?”

“I left my post. Otherwise, you might have dodged that thing.”

“Dodged it?” Tiny sparkles of light shot through Bjarnsson’s brain.
“Oh, _ja_. Perhaps.” And he laughed again. “So you will not turn back?
Not even for the beautiful Joan?”

Fallon’s eyes closed, but the lines of his jaw were stern with anger.
“Do you have to torture me?”

“Wait,” said Bjarnsson. “Wait a little. Then I will know.”

       *       *       *       *       *

His voice was suddenly strange. Fallon opened his eyes. The glowing
fire in the explorer’s body was growing brighter, so that it blurred
the lines of vein and bone and sinew.

“No,” said Bjarnsson. “No need for torture. Turn back, Fallon.”

God, how he wanted to! “No,” he whispered. “I’ve got to try.”

Bjarnsson’s voice came to him, almost as an echo.

“We were fools, Fallon. Fools to think that we could stop this thing
with a single puny bomb. Kashimo was a fool, too, but he was a gambler.
But we, Fallon, you and I--we were the bigger fools.”

“The kind of fools,” said Fallon doggedly, “that men have always been.
And damn it, I think I’d rather be the fool I am than the smart guy I
was!”

Bjarnsson’s laughter echoed in his helmet. Fallon had a moment’s eerie
feeling that he heard with his brain instead of his ears.

“Wonderful, Fallon, wonderful! You see how circumstance makes us
traitors to ourselves? But there is no need for heroics. You can turn
back, Fallon.”

The lines of Bjarnsson’s body were quite gone. He loomed against the
darkness as a pillar of shining mist. Fallon’s weary eyes were dazzled
with it.

“No,” he muttered stubbornly. “No.”

Bjarnsson’s voice rolled in on him suddenly, soul-shaking as an organ.

Voice--or mind? A magnificent, thundering strength.

“This is evolution, Fallon. So shall we be, a million million years
from now. This is living, Fallon. It is godhood! Take off your suit,
Fallon! Grow with me!”

“Joan,” said Fallon wearily. “Joan, dearest.”

Cosmic laughter, shuddering in his mind. And then,

“Turn back, Fallon. In an hour it will be too late.”

The shining mist was dimming, drawing in upon itself. And at the core,
a tiny light was growing, a frosty white flame that seared Fallon’s
brain.

“Turn back! Turn back!”

He fought, silently. But the light and the voice poured into him.
Abruptly, something in him relaxed. He’d been so long without rest.

He knew, very dimly, that he turned and changed the course, back toward
the coast of California.

       *       *       *       *       *

From somewhere, out of the gulfs between the stars, a voice spoke to
him as he lay sprawled across the control panel.

“There was no need for you to die, Fallon. Now, I can see much. It
was no monster that struck us, but the first shock of a series of
quakes, which will close the fissure far better than any human agency.
Therefore, what happened to me was not your fault.

“And I am glad it happened. I, Bjarnsson, was growing old, I had
nothing but science to hold me to Earth. Now my knowledge is boundless,
and I am not confined by the fetters of the flesh. I am Mind--as some
day we will all be.

“You will be safe, Fallon. The invasion will fail as the power is shut
off, and America can deal with any further dangers. Marry Joan, and be
happy.

“I don’t know about myself, yet. The possibilities are too vast to be
explored in a minute. I am not dead, Fallon. Remember that! But--” and,
here Fallon heard an echo of Bjarnsson’s harsh, mocking laughter--“if
you should ever cease to be a fool and become again a smart guy, I
shall find a way to send you back along evolution, to a stupid ape!

“I go now, Fallon. _Skoal!_ And will you name your first-born Einar? I
can see that it will be a son!”

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUT OF THE SEA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
