The Project Gutenberg eBook of Forgotten danger, by William Morrison

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Forgotten danger

Author: William Morrison

Release Date: August 15, 2022 [eBook #68753]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FORGOTTEN DANGER ***





                           FORGOTTEN DANGER

                          BY WILLIAM MORRISON

                         ILLUSTRATED BY FREAS

              Crusoe could remember only one thing--that
                   somewhere near some deadly danger
               threatened him! He had no way of knowing
               what it was, or why he was in the swamp.
                 Then he found he could work miracles!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
          Science Fiction Adventures Magazine, February 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


He had a feeling that there was something he had to remember, something
urgent, something that had to do with danger. But it was hard to think
of it, it was hard to think at all. There was a dullness in his head
as if he had been too long asleep. And now that he had awakened at
last, he did not know for the moment where he was. He would realize, of
course, once he shook himself and straightened out his mind. But so far
he did not know. Nothing was familiar.

It was dark, and in the background he saw the silhouettes of bushes, a
bridge, trees. Closer at hand there was a fire over which a large pot
was boiling. Around the fire were four men in ragged clothes. As the
firelight flickered over their faces, casting weird lights upon the
battered features, he studied them carefully. He knew none of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

One was a big subtly mis-shapen bull of a man with a three days' beard.
There was power in the set of his shoulders, in his easy slouch as,
with narrowed eyes, he stirred the contents of the pot. Another was
small, with a pointed beard and a shining bald head. The first one,
he gathered from their conversation, was called Angel, the second,
Professor. The other two were of more moderate size. He saw that their
faces assumed strange colors in the light of the leaping flames. He
could not, no matter how hard he tried, gather what their names were.
But he knew that names didn't matter. The thing that mattered was the
danger that somehow threatened and that he couldn't remember.

Angel lifted something out of the pot with a long spoon, said curtly,
"Stuff's ready," and began to ladle out the steaming mixture. The men
moved toward him with their large tin cups, and then moved back to eat.
The largest portion of all Angel kept for himself. The next largest he
brought to the sitting man, stumbling as he did so over a root that
tangled his shoe. But he caught himself before he had spilled the
contents of the cup and said, "Here y'are, Crusoe."

Crusoe. A strange name. Not his at all. But he said automatically,
"Thank you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Angel had lifted a spoonful of the stew to his own mouth. Now he gulped
it down hastily and said, "Hey fellows, he sounds like he came out of
it."

The other men gathered around him. Professor, staring with sharp eyes,
asked, "Do you recall your real name now?"

He shook his head. "I don't remember a thing. How did I get here?"

"You don't remember that?"

He said with irritation, "I have just told you so."

"Don't get huffy, chum," said Angel. "I been feedin' you and takin'
care of you and your pal for two weeks. And you don't know a thing
about it, huh?"

"I recall nothing. Except that there is danger."

"The railroad bulls who chased us," said one of the other men. "He
remembers them."

"Bulls? No, it is something more than that."

"What about it, Professor?" asked Angel. "Think he'll snap out of it so
he really remembers?"

"I certainly hope so," returned the little bald man. "When I first
found him, wandering around near the swamp, he seemed to be in a
complete coma. Then, after a few days of rest, he seemed to realize
dimly what was going on around him. But from day to day he remembered
nothing. Perhaps the events are not completely forgotten, perhaps they
reside in his subconscious, ready to be called to mind again upon
proper occasion. However, so far there is no evidence on this point."

"But he's gettin' better all the time," said Angel defensively.

"Yes, that is the thing that indicates there is hope. From now on I
think that he will consciously remember all that happens. And perhaps,
in time, he will recall who he really is. In the meantime, of course,
he is like a shipwrecked mariner discovering an entirely strange land.
That is why I have named him Crusoe." He smiled wistfully. "Perhaps he
is more fortunate than he seems. I would give much for his ability to
forget."

"Stop harpin' on it, Professor. It happened long ago."

"But I still remember it as keenly as if it had happened yesterday.
Strange, all the whiskey and gin I have drunk have not dulled my memory
in the least. I was very successful in my profession, gentlemen. I was
already an Associate Professor of English Literature, a recognized
authority on the novel. I had a great career ahead of me. And then, one
day, coming home from a Christmas party with my wife, my car skidded on
the ice--"

Angel's heavy hand fell across his shoulder. "It's okay, Professor,
don't talk about it no more. I know where I can pick up some rotgut
tomorrow night, and you'll celebrate and forget all about it."

Crusoe listened with interest. He had a vague memory of having heard
Professor's story about his wife's death before, as if the man had told
it to others before they had met Angel and the latter's friends. But it
was so vague that he could hardly be sure it was a memory at all. And
meanwhile the feeling of danger persisted. He had to do something, do
it rapidly. But what?

He felt the anger of frustration, an anger that made him tense and
irritable. He ate his stew in silence, aware of its strong and slightly
unpleasant taste. He had a feeling as if he were used to better
food--and yet he must have been eating the stew all along for the past
weeks.

The fire was dying down, and several of the other men talked in low
voices to each other. He heard Angel: "And so this cop says to me,
'Move on, ya funny-lookin' bum--'" And then, the rough voice rose in
amusement. "I give him a airplane whirl and toss him over the bridge.
And then he comes up, coughin' up water, and says, 'Now I remember when
I seen you before. You was the _Destroyin' Angel_. You used to wrestle
with _The Masked McGinty_!'"

Angel had been a wrestler, Professor a student of literature. If he
asked the other men what they had been, they would doubtless know.
What had he himself been?

Again his mind seemed blank. He sat there sullenly, staring at his
empty cup, and wondered if there were any torture greater than that of
not being able to remember something that insistently demanded to be
remembered.

Soon the conversations died down. The men settled themselves on the
dry grass, pulled their old worn apologies for blankets over them, and
began to snore. Around them, as the fire was reduced to embers, the
night closed in. Crusoe could hear the chirping of crickets and the
quiet flow of water under the bridge. A crackling shower of sparks
spurted unexpectedly from the still glowing coals.

He couldn't sleep. He had slept enough during the past weeks. Now he
had to awaken fully, to realize what he must do next. But first he must
recall what had happened. Where had the Professor met him? He had been
wandering around near a swamp. Now, what on earth had he been doing
near a swamp?

The night passed slowly as he tried to track down the thoughts which
kept eluding him. Even the chirping of the crickets died away, and at
last there was only the ripple of the water. Then, after a time, he
became aware of new sounds. The crunching of twigs under foot, the
creak of shoes on the ground. People were approaching.

He sat up suddenly, as if he had recognized that _this_ was the danger
he had feared. "Angel!" he called.

The ex-wrestler awoke, and the Professor with him. "Could be cops,"
whispered Angel hoarsely. "Some farmer loses a chicken, and they think
of us. We better get goin'."

He rose quietly and led the way in the direction opposite the
approaching sounds. Crusoe could hear the heavy breathing of the other
men, almost as if they were continuing to snore even though they were
now awake. They were on the alert, but not seriously alarmed. No, this
wasn't the danger he had to fear. This was a mere trifle. The real
danger was deep, hidden--

Some one stumbled loudly. A voice came out of the darkness. "Hey,
you--stop!"

"Better start runnin'," muttered Angel, and lumbered forward. He
tripped over something and cursed, but kept on going.

It was growing lighter now, and Crusoe found it easier to see. In front
of him the ground rose gently toward the top of a low hill. And halfway
up the slope stood two men, armed with rifles. They lifted the rifles
and one of them said harshly, "Hold it, you bums."

Their retreat was cut off. Angel came to a stop, the others near
him, the slower and slighter Professor bringing up the rear. Without
thinking, Crusoe raised his arm, and just as if his hand held a weapon,
he pointed at the two men with their rifles.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rifles exploded. They flew apart into countless fragments, and as
if by magic, blood appeared on the faces of the two men. Angel grasped
the situation instantly. He said, "Come on, fellows," and rushed
forward again. But the two men collapsed before he reached them.

From behind them came angry yells as the first group realized that the
trap had failed. Angel chuckled. "They thought they had us," he said.
"When they see what happened to those two guys, they won't be in such a
hurry to get close to us again."

"What did happen?" asked one of the men. He gestured with reluctance at
Crusoe. "This guy just pointed his hand--"

Angel whirled around. "Him? I thought somebody in back of me threw a
grenade. I wasn't askin' who done it--"

"Nobody threw no grenade. He just pointed at them."

"Just with his finger? And them rifles exploded? It ain't possible!"

They surrounded Crusoe and stared at him with fear-filled eyes. "How
did you do it, pal?"

He shook his head. "I don't know. I just felt as if a weapon belonged
in my hand, as if all I had to do was point it. So I did. And the
rifles exploded."

"Point at a tree."

He pointed at a tree. Nothing happened.

Angel bounced his hand against his ear, as if trying to shake loose
some water that hampered his hearing. He looked uneasy and bewildered.
"Somethin's screwy, but we can't stop to figure it now. We gotta keep
goin'."

The pursuers were being more cautious now, and after a time Crusoe
realized that the acuteness of the danger had passed. They all stopped
to rest. The other two men, however, paused only briefly. One of them
said, "So long, chum. We better split up here. We're gonna catch a
freight goin' north."

They seemed anxious to part from Angel and his friends. Crusoe watched
them go without regret. They were odd-looking men, and he had not
enjoyed their company. Moreover, he had a feeling that they had nothing
to do with the danger the thought of which made him uneasy. Professor,
now--Professor had a little more to do with it.

Angel's ponderous mind had returned to the subject of their mysterious
escape. He said, "Look, Crusoe, how'd ya do it? You can come clean with
us. We won't spill it to nobody."

Crusoe said, "I haven't the slightest idea. As I told you, all I did
was point."

"Any more tricks you know how to pull?"

"How do I know? I didn't even suspect that I could perform this one."

"I suppose," said the Professor, "that the reflexes, which existed long
before there was a conscious mind, can continue to persist even after
the mind has been seriously injured. You must have been in the habit of
using some weapon--"

"A weapon? You mean that I was a soldier? Then what am I doing out of
uniform?"

"I hardly know," said the Professor slowly. "When I first met you, near
the swamp, you were wearing nothing. Your body was dirty and slightly
burnt, as if from some explosion. There was not a shred of clothes to
give a clue to what you had been. Those you are now wearing, including
your overalls, I ah--borrowed from a clothesline."

"But there may be traces of my own clothes back in that swamp."

"They will be hard to find. Swamps have a habit of swallowing what is
left in them."

"But there must be _something_ there. How did I get to the swamp in the
first place? And what sort of explosion tore my clothes from me?"

"A plane," said Angel suddenly. "Maybe you were in a crash. I remember
that a coupla months ago some farmers had a story about a plane
explodin' in the sky. Maybe that was the one."

"If I was in a plane, the wreckage must still be in the swamp." And
there too must be where the danger lay. "I'm going back there," he said
with sudden determination.

"I'll go with you, of course," said the Professor. "As the first
one to come across you in your helpless condition, I feel a certain
responsibility for you."

Angel grinned. "I feel the same way about you, Professor. I guess I
been feelin' like that ever since I found you gettin' pushed around
by Monk Cromo. Monk's about my size," he explained to Crusoe. "And he
useta be a fighter. He thought he had only Professor to handle. He
found he had _me_. And ya know, pal, that a good wrestler will take a
fighter any old time."

"How long ago was that?" asked Professor. "It seems like ages."

"Five, six years. But you know somethin', pal, you ain't as helpless as
you used to be. That's what comes of havin' a head on you. You learn
how to get along, no matter where you are."

"I regard that as a compliment, Angel," smiled the little man. "Now,
shall we start?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward the danger that Crusoe felt awaited them in the swamp they could
travel but slowly. They had to go by foot, on dusty narrow roads. There
was no hope of getting a lift from passing cars. One look at the three
of them, and the average driver stepped on the gas and raced away.
Farmers set their dogs on them, and only the sight of Angel's grim face
and the strength of Angel's powerful muscles kept them from being torn
by the hounds and beaten by their masters.

Everything that happened now Crusoe remembered perfectly. His mind
could go back a day, two days, with no trouble at all. It was only when
it reached that moment when he had become aware of his surroundings at
the fire that his memory stopped short, with terrifying abruptness.
Beyond that it couldn't go. What had he done before then?

As they made their way toward the swamp, he became aware of something
else. The people here looked strange. Come to think of it, those two
tramps who had been with them earlier had looked strange in the same
way. And the farmers spoke in peculiar fashion, with an accent that
grated slightly on his ear. Queer, he thought, that people who had
lived here all their lives should seem so out of place and learn their
own language so improperly.

Once, when Angel was foraging for food, a big dangerous-looking dog
came barking at Crusoe and Professor. This was a barking dog that had
never heard that it was not supposed to bite. Crusoe liked neither the
vicious glint in its eyes nor the cruel look of its teeth. As the beast
made a sudden lunge at them, he snapped his fingers sharply and said,
"Scar!"

The animal came to a halt, as if puzzled. Professor laughed. "I don't
think that's its name," he said, and stooped to pick up a heavy rock
that might serve as a missile. The dog promptly scurried away as fast
as its legs would take it.

"'Scar' isn't a name," said Crusoe thoughtfully. "I have the feeling
that it's a command. When accompanied by a snap of the fingers, it
tells the animal to go back to its corner."

"That's interesting. So you're actually beginning to recall things."

"Not exactly. I'm still responding almost automatically, at little
beyond the reflex level. Before I snapped my fingers I didn't know that
I was going to snap them. Nor did I realize that I knew the word."

"But at least you've made a beginning," said Professor happily. "Soon
you'll be recalling the past with full consciousness."

When Angel rejoined them, he was in proud possession of a tough but
edible chicken. Crusoe and Professor congratulated him, and later they
cooked the chicken and devoured it. It struck Crusoe that the taste
of the chicken too was strange. Or was it rather that the chicken was
quite ordinary, and that his own sense of taste was what was unusual?
That must have been it, he thought. The feeling that food tasted good
or bad also depended upon a kind of reflex memory, a memory that was
making itself felt more and more.

The evening of that same day they camped in an open stubble-covered
field. As it grew dark, Angel began to talk of his past career, of his
triumphs as a wrestler, of his one great adventure in Hollywood to
make a picture. He had been the comic relief, a foil to the handsome
hero. Crusoe had no reason to doubt what he said, but all the same he
found Angel's adventures incredible. The life that the ex-wrestler
described was mad, completely absurd. He couldn't imagine himself
living it.

He stared up at the sky, and realized that this too didn't look
"normal." It wasn't, it couldn't be, the sky under which he had lived
for most of his life. And the idea of living under a different sky
didn't surprise him. It was an idea to which he must long have been
accustomed.

Two days later they reached the edge of the swamp. "I found you
near here," said the Professor. He waved his arm vaguely. "You were
wandering around, covered with mud."

It didn't look familiar. Nor did it look as dangerous as he had
expected it to look. He asked, "Why did we leave this neighborhood? Why
didn't we stay and look for the plane that had crashed?"

"For one reason," said the Professor gently. "Because at the time I
didn't realize that there had been a plane. For another, because we
were--shall I say, not popular?"

"Why? Why weren't we?"

A chuckle from Angel interrupted him. "People don't like to lose
chickens."

"I see."

"Nor clothes," added the Professor. "Remember that I supplied you with
garments that were hanging on a clothesline. Perhaps I should have
mentioned that the farmer's wife who discovered her loss tried to
extract payment from me by means of a shotgun."

Crusoe nodded slowly. "By now, you assume, the memory of the loss will
have grown faint?"

"I hope so. We shall, of course, do our best not to attract attention."

They moved into the swamp. It was gloomy, but not, thought Crusoe,
frightening. There must have been no more than light rains during the
past weeks, for at first they found it possible to walk along dry
paths, and here and there were pools of mud where ordinarily there must
have been water. But as they penetrated further in, the mud became more
liquid. The leaves of the trees overhead shut out most of the light,
and they walked over soft carpets of moss and decaying leaves. The odor
too became unpleasant, the odor of mud flats and stagnant water, of
small dead animals and impure, stinking marsh gas.

"Where are we headed for?" said Angel uneasily. "This is kind of dark--"

"Not too dark to see," said Crusoe. "But I perceive no signs of there
having been a crash."

"Nor do I," agreed the Professor. "However, the swamp covers an area
of roughly twenty square miles. It will take us a considerable time to
explore it all."

And in those twenty square miles was the danger which he had felt
hanging over him. He suddenly began to wonder what he would find. A
crashed plane? No, it would be more than that. A crashed plane wouldn't
explain why the people acted and talked so queerly, why the food didn't
taste right, nor the sky look right.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following day Angel stumbled over a half-hidden log and almost
stepped into a trap. As the steel jaws snapped on the log instead of on
his foot, Crusoe thought of another trap, a trap not of steel, but more
relentless, one that gripped more firmly than this ever would. Had it
shut recently, or was it going to shut?

Angel's cursing distracted him from his thoughts. Professor said
mildly, "Don't use such language, Angel. After all, you _have_ escaped.
And here's another trap--with something in it."

Angel's eyes glittered. "It's a 'possum. They're good eatin'." He began
to laugh. "Say, won't this guy be sore when he finds two traps sprung,
and nothin' in them!"

But later that day, when they saw the trapper, it seemed less like
a laughing matter. The man carried a rifle, and as Angel made an
incautious noise, he swung around, rifle butt to his shoulder. Angel
dropped just as the bullet cut through the leaves near where his head
had been.

And then the trapper's rifle exploded, just as the other rifles had
done.

The trapper stared at what was left of his weapon in his hand and then
turned and ran. Angel said, "You pointed your finger again!"

"No," said Crusoe. "Not this time. I just _started_ to point."

"Maybe it's just the thinkin' about it that does it. Maybe you can do
things by thinkin'."

"That's absurd."

"I wonder," said the Professor. "The swamp ahead of us is particularly
nasty. We'll have to wade through water and mud at least to our waists.
And when I remember how muddy you were when I found you, I have a
feeling that you must have wandered through here. Now if we could only
dry up the swamp--"

"They tried to do it once," said Angel. "It can't be done."

"But suppose Crusoe were to point his finger at it and think: 'Swamp,
dry up.' I wonder what would happen."

They were both staring at Crusoe now, and he said, "Nothing would
happen."

"You can't tell," said Angel. "Maybe Professor's right. Maybe it
_would_ dry up. Try it and see."

"I refuse to make a fool of myself."

"The foolish thing," remarked the Professor, "is not to try."

"Yeah, that trapper will be comin' back after awhile, with his pals.
He'll keep us from goin' back the way we came. We'll have to go ahead.
And I hate to get all muddy. Come on, pal, just point your finger and
think the magic words."

       *       *       *       *       *

He did feel like a fool, and if the other two had seemed at all
skeptical, he would never have dared do it. Nevertheless, there did
seem to be nothing to lose. He pointed his finger at the dark and muddy
water, at the tangle of fallen trees and rotting water lilies, and
concentrated.

"Think hard," urged the Professor.

He thought hard and forgot that they were there. Suddenly, a sheet
of blinding flame swept over the swamp. He heard Angel cry out, and
covered his own eyes. When the flame had passed, the water was gone,
and with it the tangle of fallen vegetation. Before them lay a bed of
hard dry clay.

"You did it," said Angel in awe.

"I didn't," he replied angrily. "You just can't do things like that by
thinking."

"I know _I_ can't," said Angel. "But you can. It's magic."

The Professor smiled. "Let's not worry what it is. The main thing is
that the swamp ahead of us is now dry, and we can go ahead."

They went ahead. And a quarter mile ahead of them they found the ship.

It had been easier to locate than he had thought it would be. And once
he saw the ship, a feeling of recognition swept over him.

Angel had halted and was saying in awe, "This ain't no plane."

It wasn't. It had been constructed to do more than skim the surface of
a planet. It had been built to bridge the gap from one planet to the
next, from one star to the next. Only fifty feet long, it was a thing
of strength and beauty, with a dull smooth finish that could slip
through an atmosphere with a minimum of friction. He was beginning to
remember a great deal now. The entrance, he knew, was near the nose.
The door closed tight after you went through it, leaving an apparently
unbroken surface of metal, but if you came over to it and put your hand
on a certain plate--

He came over to it and hesitated. The Professor asked eagerly, "Is
this--is it a spaceship?"

"Yes. This is the door, over here. I must have crashed in the swamp and
for some reason staggered out."

"But how--how does it work?"

"Like this."

He raised his hand to the plate, and suddenly the sense of danger
swept over him again. And now he knew where it came from. Not from the
ship itself. No, not from the ship. But from the Professor, the gentle
little man who had been protecting him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He swung around and saw that the little man's forehead was beady with
sweat. The man had been tense, hoping that he would open the door
without remembering too much. The hope had failed. His memory had been
coming back gradually in the past few days. Now the sight of the ship
had brought back everything. Everything.

He caught sight of the glint of metal in the Professor's hand. "I
thought so," he said. "I thought so."

Angel's lower jaw had dropped. He stammered, "What is this? Professor,
that ain't a gun, is it?"

"Much more than a gun," said Crusoe softly. "That's the magic. When I
pointed with my hand, without thinking, it was because I was accustomed
to having a weapon like that. But it was the Professor who actually had
it. It was he who made those rifles explode. And because he didn't want
any one to suspect that he had such a thing on him, he let me have the
credit."

"It will do you no good to remember," said the Professor. "In the long
run it will do you no good."

"I wonder. You can cover a great surface with a sheet of flame by using
that thing, you can kill with it, but you can't make me do what you
want. Not now, not after I've remembered who you are."

"Look," said Angel, "I don't get this. I know the Professor for five,
six years."

"Not this one," replied Crusoe. "Perhaps the original Professor did
find me wandering around alone. But then my friend here came searching
for me, and after studying his characteristics for a time, killed him
and took his place. He's a great mimic, is my friend. That, in fact, is
why I was sent to get him, and was bringing him, a prisoner, back to
his home planet. He's mimicked all sorts of people, even those who have
only the slightest resemblance to humanoids. It was nothing at all for
him to become a Professor. Physically, of course, he probably doesn't
fit the part too well. Do you mean to say that you haven't noticed?"

The Professor laughed gently. "Angel wouldn't notice. Haven't you
realized yet that he's half blind? He stumbles, blunders into things.
He can't see well. He didn't notice the difference. Not when I acted so
well."

       *       *       *       *       *

Angel sought escape from confusion in a fact he could understand. He
said pathetically, "You killed the real Professor? He was a guy who
wouldn't have hurt anybody. You killed him?"

"Of course. I've killed much better and more important people than he
would ever be."

"He's right, Angel, he's an experienced killer. But all his killing
won't help him now. He needs me to open and operate the ship. And I'm
not cooperating."

Angel held fast to what he could understand. He muttered to himself,
"The dirty killer. The rat."

The little man ignored him. He said, "You were very wise, Tlaxon--you
remember your name now?--you were very wise, when you saw that a crash
threatened, to lock the ship's machinery so that only your own personal
characteristic motions would open it again. That was too much for
even me to mimic. Your cleverness left me helpless to escape from the
planet without you. After we finally crashed, and I recovered from the
shock, I examined the ship's machinery. There seemed to be no serious
damage. But I couldn't operate it. I needed your help. And you were
unconscious. Sitting at the controls, you had received a much more
severe shock than I had. You didn't recover for many hours. And after
you did, you remembered nothing. You were still unable to be of use to
me.

"I was enraged, but there was nothing I could do. I tried to keep you
in the ship, but once, while I was asleep, you awoke and stumbled out.
I had no choice then but to follow you in order to protect you. The
ship locked automatically behind me, leaving me worse off than ever.
But I had to follow because my escape depended on your own. It was then
that Professor discovered you and I discovered him. I had to kill him.
I think you can see why."

"Yes, I see now."

"Once our return to the ship was blocked off, we had to hide. I had
to discard our old clothes and steal clothes that would be less
conspicuous. As it was, we ourselves were conspicuous enough. In
the world of ordinary men, we would have been subject to immediate
investigation. It was only among such outcasts as Angel and his friends
that we could to some extent pass ourselves off as natives. When they
met us, the others thought that Angel had at last found friends of his
own kind. Angel, of course, thought he had found the Professor. He was
overjoyed to see me, and his enthusiasm was our passport. Moreover, in
their world, it was not customary to ask questions that a man was not
inclined to answer. There were too many embarrassing secrets on all
sides.

"I was continually on tenter-hooks with regard to you. I was hoping
that you would remember enough to help operate the ship and escape from
the planet, but not enough to recall who I was. Meanwhile, I watched
with interest how even in your amnesiac state you absorbed the English
language. With our people, Tlaxon, language learning is much more of a
reflex process than it is with these Earthlanders. You learned without
knowing that you were doing so. All the same, your racial peculiarities
prevented you from speaking exactly as the natives do."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's why I thought that _they_ were the ones who spoke strangely.
All but Angel."

"Yes, he has the same difficulties with dentate sounds like _t_'s and
_d_'s that we do. Strange how much he resembles us physically too. It
helped people to think of us as three freaks of a kind. Mentally, of
course, there's all the difference in the world."

"Is there? I wonder if he isn't basically sound. I wonder how well he'd
do if he weren't made to feel like a freak, if he were given a chance
in our own System."

The smaller man's lips curled in a sneer. "Perhaps an inferior creature
like him would fit in. I'm afraid I never will. I'll tell you what I'll
do, Tlaxon. Once we take off from this planet I'll let you put me down
in one of three places where I have friends. I'll give you your choice
and promise you that no harm will come to you."

"The rat," muttered Angel hoarsely. "Look, Crusoe, I don't understand
everything you fellows said. But I remember the Professor, the real
Professor. He had a big head, just like me. He used to say a wrestler
could be a highbrow too."

"A high forehead, such as our own. Yes," agreed the little man. "He
had."

"And he didn't make fun of me because my face was kinda blue. Other
people used to look at me like I was a freak. They didn't realize that
after I stopped wrestlin' I had to go to work in some factory where the
silver chemicals turned my skin blue. They just thought I was born that
way."

"We _were_ born that way," said Crusoe gently. "Can't you tell? Or
are your eyes so very bad? That's one reason we would have been so
conspicuous without you. That's why the people looked so strange to me.
Not merely because most of them had low foreheads. But because none of
them were blue. Pink and brown and white, and red and yellow and black,
but no blue. I began to think of them all as freaks."

"You are as big a freak as any," interrupted the Professor. "I
am giving you a chance for your life. And you prefer to discuss
irrelevancies."

Crusoe shook his head. "Your offer is rejected. Whatever happens to
me, I do not intend to help you escape."

"No? You have no choice, friend Tlaxon. I am tired of caring for you
like a baby. Either you accept my offer now or I withdraw it for a
worse one. And I think I know of ways to make you do as I wish."

It was Crusoe's turn to perspire. He was quite aware that the other
man knew of many painful ways. But he knew too that if he accepted
the original offer, the murderous little man would break his promise
and murder him the moment the ship's controls were freed of their
responsiveness to the characteristics of one man.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Crusoe hesitated, the sharp crack of a rifle broke the silence.
Angel winced and pressed his hand to his right shoulder. A red stain
spread under his fingers.

Half a dozen men with rifles were advancing across the burned out area
of the swamp. "Attracted by the flame," muttered the Professor. "The
fools." He swung around to cover them with his weapon, keeping one eye
on Crusoe.

He had written off Angel because of the latter's wound. He should have
remembered the man's tremendous vitality. Just as the weapon went off,
Angel's left hand swung out and caught him under the jaw. A sheet of
flame appeared at treetop level and then died out. The weapon fell to
the ground and Crusoe picked it up.

The rifles exploded. The next moment the door in the ship's surface had
swung silently open. Crusoe leaped in.

"So long, pal," said Angel huskily. "This rat killed Professor. I'm
goin' to make sure that he gets his."

Crusoe shook his head, remembering all the times the big man had
befriended him before.

"Those men will punish him. You come in here."

"Huh?" said Angel foolishly.

"Your one real friend is dead. Do you want to be regarded by the others
as a freak all the rest of your life? Come with me. I'm expected back
with a prisoner. They'll be glad to get you instead. You'll be made
over, given a new life. You'll still be blue, of course--but so will
everyone else. As for _him_, he's past making over. He doesn't deserve
to be treated as we treat most of our prisoners. I'll leave him to your
race and he'll probably be punished for killing the real Professor.
Even if the only thing that happens to him is to remain on Earth and
have no way of getting back to his own planet, that will be punishment
enough. You needn't worry about his getting his."

Angel moved slowly through the doorway. The metal clanged shut behind
him. The motor purred and the ship began to vibrate so smoothly that
Crusoe could hardly feel it. All was well, he realized; the motor was
unharmed by the crash. For which they were thankful.

The ship roared into the air. As the forgotten little man, who had been
the danger, screamed unheard, they headed for the nearest star and
home--for both of them.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FORGOTTEN DANGER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
