The Project Gutenberg eBook of The sky was full of ships, by Theodore
Sturgeon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The sky was full of ships

Author: Theodore Sturgeon

Release Date: September 15, 2022 [eBook #68992]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SKY WAS FULL OF
SHIPS ***





                       THE SKY WAS FULL OF SHIPS

                         By THEODORE STURGEON

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Thrilling Wonder Stories, June 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Sykes died, and after two years they tracked Gordon Kemp down and
brought him back, because he was the only man who knew anything about
the death. Kemp had to face a coroner's jury in Switchpath, Arizona,
a crossroads just at the edge of the desert, and he wasn't too happy
about it, being city-bred and not quite understanding the difference
between "hicks" and "folks."

The atmosphere in the courtroom was tense. Had there been great
wainscoted walls and a statue of blind Justice, it would have been
more impersonal and, for Kemp, easier to take. But this courtroom was a
crossroads granger's hall in Switchpath, Arizona.

The presiding coroner was Bert Whelson, who held a corncob pipe instead
of a gavel. At their ease around the room were other men, dirt-farmers
and prospectors like Whelson. It was like a movie short. It needed only
a comedy dance number and somebody playing a jug.

But there was nothing comic about it. These hicks were in a position
to pile trouble on Kemp, trouble that might very easily wind up in the
gas chamber.

The coroner leaned forward. "You got nothin' to be afeard of, son, if
your conscience is clear."

"I still ain't talking. I brought the guy in, didn't I? Would I of done
that if I'd killed him?"

The coroner stroked his stubble, a soft rasping sound like a rope being
pulled over a wooden beam.

"We don't know about that, Kemp. _Hmm._ Why can't you get it through
your head that nobody's accusing you of anything? You're jest a feller
knows something about the death of this here Alessandro Sykes. This
court'd like to know exactly what happened."

He hesitated, shuffled.

"Sit down, son," said the coroner.

That did it. He slumped into the straight chair that one of the men
pushed up for him, and told this story.

       *       *       *       *       *

I guess I better go right back to the beginning, the first time I ever
saw this here Sykes.

I was working in my shop one afternoon when he walked in. He watched
what I was doing and spoke up.

"You Gordon Kemp?"

I said yes and looked him over. He was a scrawny feller, prob'ly sixty
years old and wound up real tight. He talked fast, smoked fast, moved
fast, as if there wasn't time for nothin', but he had to get on to
somethin' else. I asked him what he wanted.

"You the man had that article in the magazine about the concentrated
atomic torch?" he said.

"Yeah," I told him. "Only that guy from the magazine, he used an awful
lot of loose talk. Says my torch was three hundred years ahead of its
time." Actually it was something I stumbled on by accident, more or
less. The ordinary atomic hydrogen torch--plenty hot.

I figured out a ring-shaped electro-magnet set just in front of
the jet, to concentrate it. It repelled the hydrogen particles and
concentrated them. It'll cut anything--anything. And since it got
patented, you'd be surprised at the calls I got. You got no idea how
many people want to cut into bank vaults an' the side doors of hock
shops. Well, about Sykes....

I told him this magazine article went a little too far, but I did have
quite a gadget. I give him a demonstration or two, and he seemed
satisfied. Finally I told him I was wasting my time unless he had a
proposition.

He's lookin' real happy about this torch of mine, an' he nods.

"Sure. Only you'll have to take a couple of weeks off. Go out West.
Arizona. Cut a way into a cave there."

"Cave, huh?" I said. "Is it legal?" I didn't want no trouble.

"Sure it's legal," he tells me.

"How much?"

He says he hates to argue.

"If you'll get me into that place--and you can satisfy yourself as to
whether it's legal--I'll give you five thousand dollars," he says.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, five thousand berries cuts a lot of ice for me. Especially for
only two weeks' work. And besides, I liked the old guy's looks. He was
queer as a nine-dollar bill, mind you, and had a funny way of carryin'
on, but I could see he was worth the kind of money he talked.

He looked like he really needed help, too. Aw, maybe I'm just a boy
scout at heart. As I say, I liked him, money or no money, and chances
are I'd have helped him out for free.

He came to see me a couple more times and we sweated out the details.
It wound up with him and me on the train and my torch and the other
gear in the baggage car up front. Maybe some of you remember the day we
arrived here. He seemed to know a lot of people here. Mm? I thought so.
He told me how many years he had been coming out to Switchpath.

He told me lots of things. He was one of the talkin'est old geezers
I ever did see. I understood about one ninth of what he said. He was
lonely, I guess. I was the first man he ever called in to help him with
his work, and he spilled the overflow of years of workin' by himself.

About this Switchpath proposition, he told me that when he was just a
punk out of college, he was a archyologist roamin' around the desert
lookin' for old Indian stuff, vases and arrowheads and such stuff. And
he run across this here room in the rock, at the bottom of a deep cleft.

He got all excited when he told me about this part of it. Went on a
mile a minute about plasticine ages and messy zorics and pally o'
lithographs or something. I called him down to earth and he explained
to me that this room was down in rock that was very old--a couple of
hundred thousand years, or maybe a half million.

He said that rock had been there either before mankind had a start here
on earth, or maybe about the same time as the missing link. Me, I don't
care about dead people or dead people's great grandfather's, but Sykes
was all enthusiastic.

Anyhow, it seems that this cave had been opened by some sort of an
earthquake or something, and the stuff in it must have been there all
that time. What got him excited was that the stuff was machinery of
some kind and must have been put there 'way _before there was any human
beings on earth at all_!

That seemed silly to me. I wanted to know what kind of machinery.

"Well," he says, "I thought at first that it was some sort of a radio
transmitter. Get this," he says. "Here is a machine with an antenna on
top of it, just like a micro-wave job. And beside it is another machine.

"This second machine is shaped like a dumbbell standing on one end. The
top of it is a sort of covered hopper, and at the waist of the machine
is an arrangement of solenoids made out of some alloy that was never
seen before on this earth.

"There's gearing between this machine and the other, the transmitter. I
have figured out what this dumbbell thing is. It's a recorder."

I want to know what is it recording. He lays one finger on the side of
his nose and winks at me.

"Thought," he says. "Raw thought. But that isn't all. Earthquakes,
continental shifts, weather cycles, lots more stuff. It integrates all
these things with thought."

I want to know how he knows all this. That was when he told me that he
had been with this thing for the better part of the last thirty years.
He'd figured it out all by himself. He was real touchy about that part
of it.

Then I began to realize what was the matter with the poor old guy. He
really figured he had something big here and he wanted to find out
about it. But it seems he was a ugly kid and a shy man, and he wanted
to make the big splash all by himself. It wouldn't do for him just to
be known as the man who discovered this thing.

"Any dolt could have stumbled across it," he'd say. He wanted to find
out everything there was about this thing before he let a soul know
about it. "Greater than the Rosetta Stone," he used to say. "Greater
than the nuclear hypotheses." Oh, he was a great one for slinging the
five-dollar words.

"And it will be Sykes who gave this to the world," he would say. "Sykes
will give it to humanity, complete and provable, and history will be
reckoned from the day I speak."

Oh, he was wacky, all right. I didn't mind, though. He was harmless,
and a nicer little character you'd never want to meet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Funny guy, that Sykes. What kind of a life he led I can only imagine.
He had dough--inherited an income or something, so he didn't have the
problems that bother most of the rest of us. He would spend days in
that cavern, staring at the machines. He didn't want to touch them. He
only wanted to find out what they were doing there. One of them was
running.

The big machine, the dumbbell-shaped one, was running. It didn't
make no noise. Both machines had a little disk set into the side. It
was half red, half black. On the big machine, the one he called the
recorder, this here disk was turning. Not fast, but you could see it
was moving. Sykes was all excited about that.

On the way out here, on the train, he spouted a lot of stuff. I don't
know why. Maybe he thought I was too dumb to ever tell anybody about
it. If that's what he thought, he had the right idea. I'm just a
grease-monkey who happened to have a bright idea. Anyway, he showed me
something he had taken from the cave.

It was a piece of wire about six feet long. But wire like I have never
seen before or since. It was about 35 gauge--like a hair. And crooked.
Crimped, I mean. Sykes said it was magnetized too. It bent easy enough,
but it wouldn't kink at all, and you couldn't put a tight bend in it. I
imagine it'd dent a pair of pliers.

He asked me if I thought I could break it. I tried and got a gash in
my lunch-hook for my trouble. So help me, it wouldn't break, and it
wouldn't cut, and you couldn't get any of those crimps out of it. I
don't mean you'd pull the wire and it would snap back. No. You couldn't
pull it straight at all.

Sykes told me on the train that it had taken him eight months to cut
that piece loose. It was more than just tough. It fused with itself.
The first four times he managed to cut it through, he couldn't get the
ends apart fast enough to keep them from fusing together again.

He finally had to clamp a pair of steel blocks around the wire, wait
for enough wire to feed through to give him some slack and then put
about twelve tons on some shears to cut through the wire. Forged
iridium steel, those cutters were, and that wire left a heck of a hole
in them.

But the wire parted. He had a big helical spring hauling the wire
tight, so that the instant it parted it was snapped out of the way. It
had to be cut twice to get the one piece out, and when he put the ends
together they fused. I mean, both on the piece he took out and the two
free ends in the machine--not a mark, not a bulge.

Well, you all remember when we arrived here with all that equipment,
and how we hired a car and went off into the desert. All the while the
old man was happy as a kid.

"Kemp, my boy," he says, "I got it decoded. I can read that tape. Do
you realize what that means? Every bit of human history--I can get it
in detail. Every single thing that ever happened to this earth or the
people in it.

"You have no idea in what detail that tape records," he says. "Want to
know who put the bee on Alexander the Great? Want to know what the name
of Pericles' girl friend really was? I have it all here. What about
these Indian and old Greek legends about a lost continent? What about
old Fort's fire-balls? Who was the man in the iron mask? I have it,
son, I have it."

That was what went on all the way out there, to that place in the dry
gulch where the cave was.

You wouldn't believe what a place that was to get to. How that old guy
ever had the energy to keep going back to it I'll never know. We had to
stop the car about twenty miles from here and hoof it.

The country out there is all tore up. If I hadn't already seen the
color of his money I'd 'a said the heck with it. Sand an' heat an' big
rocks an' more places to fall into and break your silly neck--_Lord!_

Me with a pack on my back too, the torch, the gas and a power supply
and all. We got to this cleft, see, and he outs with a length of rope
and makes it fast to a stone column that's eroded nearby. He has a
slip-snaffle on it. He lowers himself into the gulch and I drop the
gear down after him, and then down I go.

Brother, it's dark in there. We go uphill about a hundred and fifty
yards, and then Sykes pulls up in front of a facing. By the light of
his flash I can see the remains of a flock of campfires he's made there
over the years.

"There it is," he says. "It's all yours, Kemp. If that
three-hundred-years-in-the-future torch of yours is any good--prove it."

I unlimbered my stuff and got to work, and believe me it was hard, slow
goin'. But I got through. It took nine hours before I had a hole fit
for us to crawl through, and another hour for it to cool enough so's we
could use it.

       *       *       *       *       *

All that time the old man talked. It was mostly bragging about the job
he'd done decoding the wire he had. It was mostly Greek to me.

"I have a record here," he says, swishin' his hunk of wire around, "of
a phase of the industrial revolution in Central Europe that will have
the historians gnashing their teeth. But have I said anything? Not me.
Not Sykes!

"I'll have the history of mankind written in such detail, with such
authority, that the name of Sykes will go into the language as a
synonym for the miraculously accurate." I remember that because he said
it so much. He said it like it tasted good.

I remember once I asked him why it was we had to bother cutting in.
Where was the hole he had used?

"That, my boy," he says, "is an unforseen quality of the machines. For
some reason they closed themselves up. In a way I'm glad they did. I
was unable to get back in and I was forced to concentrate on my sample.
If it hadn't been for that, I doubt that I would ever had cracked the
code."

So I asked him what about all this--what were the machines and who left
them there and what for? All this while I was cutting away at that rock
facing. And, man! I never seen rock like that. If it _was_ rock, which,
now, I doubt.

It come off in flakes, in front of my torch. _My_ torch, that'll cut
anything. Do you know that in those nine hours I only got through
about seven and a half inches of that stuff? And my torch'll walk into
laminated bank vaults like the door was open.

When I asked him he shut up for a long time, but I guess he wanted to
talk. He sure was enthusiastic. And besides, he figured I was too dumb
to savvy what he was talking about. As I said before, he was right
there. So he run off about it, and this is about how it went--

"Who left these machines here or how they operate, we may never know.
It would be interesting to find out, but the important thing is to get
the records and decode them all."

It had taken him awhile to recognize that machine as a recorder. The
tipoff was that it was running and the other one, the transmitter, was
not.

He thought at first that maybe the transmitter was busted, but after
a year or two of examining the machines without touching them he began
to realize that there was a gear-train waiting by the tape where it fed
through the gismo that crimped it.

This gear train was fixed to start the transmitter, see? But it was
keyed to a certain crimp in the tape. In other words, when something
happened somewhere on earth that was just the right thing, the crimper
would record it and the transmitter would get keyed off.

Sykes studied that set-up for years before he figured the particular
squiggle in that wire that would start that transmitter to sending.
Where was it sending to? Why? Sure, he thought about that. But that
didn't matter to him.

What was supposed to happen when the tape ran out? Who or what would
come and look at it when it was all done? You know, he didn't care.
He just wanted to read that tape, is all. Seems there's a lot of guys
write history books and stuff. And he wanted to call them liars. He
wanted to tell them the way it really was. Can you imagine?

So there I am, cutting away with my super-torch on what seems to be a
solid wall made out of some stuff that has no right to be so tough. I
can still see it.

So dark, and me with black goggles on, and the doc with his back to
me so's he won't wreck his eyes, spoutin' along about history and the
first unbiased account of it. And how he was going to thrust it on the
world and just kill all those guys with all those theories.

I remember quitting once for a breather and letting the mercury cells
juice up a bit while I had a smoke. Just to make talk I ask Sykes when
does he think that transmitter is going to go to work.

"Oh," he says. "It already did. It's finished. That's how I knew
that my figuring was right. That tape has a certain rate through the
machine. It's in millimeters per month. I have the figure. It wouldn't
matter to you. But something happened a while ago that made it possible
to check. July sixteenth, nineteen hundred and forty-five, to be exact."

"You don't tell me," I says.

"Oh," he says, real pleased, "but I do! That day something happened
which put a wiggle in the wire there--the thing I was looking for all
along. It was the crimp that triggered the transmitter. I happened to
be in the cave at the time.

"The transmitter started up and the little disk spun around like mad.
Then it stopped. I looked in the papers the next week to see what it
was. Nothing I could find. It wasn't until the following August that I
found out."

I suddenly caught wise.

"Oh--the atom bomb! You mean that rig was set up to send something as
soon as an atomic explosion kicked off somewhere on earth!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He nodded his head. By the glare of the red-hot rock he looked like a
skinny old owl.

"That's right. That's why we've got to get in there in a hurry. It was
after the second Bikini blast that the cave got sealed up. I don't know
if that transmission is ever going to get picked up.

"I don't know if anything is going to happen if it is picked up. I
do know that I have the wire decoded and I mean to get those records
before anybody else does."

If that wall had been any thicker I never would've gotten through. When
I got my circle cut and the cut-out piece dropped inside, my rig was
about at its last gasp. So was Sykes. For the last two hours he'd been
hoppin' up an' down with impatience.

"Thirty years' work," he kept saying. "I've waited for this for thirty
years and I won't be stopped now. Hurry up! Hurry up!"

And when we had to wait for the opening to cool I thought he'd go wild.
I guess that's what built him up to his big breakdown. He sure was
keyed up.

Well, at last we crawled into the place. He'd talked so much about it
that I almost felt I was comin' back to something instead of seeing it
for the first time.

There were the machines, the big one about seven feet tall,
dumbbell-shaped, and the little one sort of a rounded cube with a bunch
of macaroni on top that was this antenna he was talking about.

We lit a pressure lantern that flooded the place with light--it was
small, with a floor about nine by nine--and he jumped over to the
machines.

He scrabbles around and hauls out some wire. Then he stops and stands
there looking stupid at me.

"What's the matter, Doc?" I say. I called him Doc.

He gulps and swallows.

"The reel's empty. It's empty! There's only eight inches of wire here.
Only--" and that was when he fainted.

I jumped up right away and shook him and shoved him around a little
until his eyes started to blink. He sits up and shakes himself.

"_Refilled_," he says. He is real hoarse. "Kemp! They've been here!"

I began to get the idea. The lower chamber is empty. The upper one is
full. The whole set-up is arranged to run off a new recording. And
where is Sykes' thirty years' work?

He starts to laugh. I look at him. I can't take that. The place is too
small for all that noise. I never heard anybody laugh like that. Like
short screams, one after the other, fast. He laughs and laughs.

I carry him out. I put him down outside and go back in for my gear. I
can hear him laughing out there and that busted-up voice of his echoing
in the gulch. I get everything onto the back pack and go to put out the
pressure lantern when I hear a little click.

It's that transmitter. The little red and black disk is turning around
on it. I just stand there watching it. It only runs for three or four
minutes. And then it begins to get hot in there.

I got scared. I ducked out of the hole and picked up Sykes. He didn't
weigh much. I looked back in the hole. The cave was lit up. Red. The
machines were cherry-red, straw-color, white, just that quick. They
melted. I saw it. I ran.

[Illustration: The machines grew cherry-red, then straw-colored, and
finally melted.]

I don't hardly remember getting to the rope and tying Sykes on and
climbing up and hauling him up after me. He was quiet then, but
conscious. I carried him away until the light from the gulch stopped
me. I turned around to watch.

I could see a ways down into the gulch. It was fillin' up with lava.
It was lightin' up the whole desert. And I never felt such heat. I ran
again.

I got to the car and dumped Sykes in. He shifted around on the seat
some. I asked him how he felt. He didn't answer that but mumbled a lot
of stuff.

Something like this.

"They knew we'd reached the atomic age. They wanted to be told when.
The transmitter did just that. They came and took the recordings and
refilled the machine.

"They sealed off the room with something they thought only controlled
atomic power could break into. This time the transmitter was
triggered to human beings in that room. Your torch did it, Kemp--that
three-hundred-years-in-the-future torch! They think we have atomic
power! They'll come back!"

"Who, doc? Who?" I says.

"I don't know," he mumbles. "There'd be only one reason why
someone--some creature--would want to know a thing like that. And
that's so they could stop us."

       *       *       *       *       *

So I laughed at him. I got in and started the car and laughed at him.

"Doc," I said, "we ain't goin' to be stopped now. Like the papers say,
we're in the atomic age if it kills us. But we're in for keeps. Why,
humanity would have to be killed off before it'd get out of this atomic
age."

"I know that, Kemp--I know--that's what I mean! What have we done? What
have we done?"

After that he's quiet a while and when I look at him again I see he's
dead. So I brought him in. In the excitement I faded. It just didn't
look good to me. I knew nobody would listen to a yarn like that.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was silence in the courtroom until somebody coughed, and then
everyone felt he had to make a sound with his throat or his feet. The
coroner held up his hand.

"I kin see what Brother Kemp was worried about. If that story is true
I, for one, would think twice about tellin' it."

"He's a liar!" roared a prospector from the benches. "He's a murderin'
liar! I have a kid reads that kind of stuff, an' I never did like to
see him at it. Believe me, he's a-goin' to cut it out as of right now.
I think this Kemp feller needs a hangin'!"

"Now, Jed!" bellowed the coroner. "If we kill off this man we do it
legal, hear?" The sudden hubbub quieted, and the coroner turned to the
prisoner.

"Listen here, Kemp--somethin' jest occurred to me. How long was it from
the time of the first atom blast until the time that room got sealed
up?"

"I dunno. About two years. Little over. Why?"

"An' how long since that night you been talking about, when Sykes died?"

"Or was murdered," growled the prospector.

"Shut up, Jed. Well, Kemp?"

"About eighteen mon--No. Nearer two years."

"Well, then," said the coroner, spreading his hands. "If there was
anything in your story, or in that goofy idea of the dead man's about
someone comin' to kill us off--well, ain't it about time they did?"

There were guffaws, and the end of the grange hall disappeared in a
burst of flame. Yelling, cursing, some screaming, they pushed and
fought their way out into the moonlit road.

The sky was full of ships.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SKY WAS FULL OF SHIPS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
