The Project Gutenberg eBook of Potemkin village, by Fletcher Pratt

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Potemkin village

Author: Fletcher Pratt

Release Date: September 24, 2022 [eBook #69042]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POTEMKIN VILLAGE ***





                           POTEMKIN VILLAGE

                      A Novelet by FLETCHER PRATT

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Startling Stories, February 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                                   I


Director Unterbaum of the Intercolonial Office rose from his chair as
the pair came in. "I take it you haven't met before?" he said. "Mr. and
Mrs. Lanzerotti, this is Ann Starnes, the recording photographer, and
Robert Heidekopfer, one of our better writers."

There were smiles and acknowledgments. Unterbaum touched a pair of
buttons on his desk and two chairs slid out of the walls to make a
group of five. "Sit down, please," he said. "Now I'm not going to mince
words. The reason you're here is because the Council wants you--three
of you, at least--to undertake a mission. Vincent--" he indicated
Lanzerotti, who nodded a dark head--"already knows something about it,
but for the benefit of Miss Starnes and Mr. Heidekopfer, I will say
that we want to send you to Tolstoia."

Heidekopfer smiled and said, "Sounds better than that trip to the polar
mines on Mars, eh Ann?"

"Warmer, anyhow," said the girl, turning a carefully-kept blonde head.
"But I thought Tolstoia was closed to visitors."

"The patriarch has agreed to let a delegation in for this visit," said
Unterbaum, "so we can render a fair and unbiased report on Tolstoia,
in word, picture and observation. The point is this; there are some
islands about three hundred miles off the coast of Tolstoia, between it
and South Bergenland--the Wrightley Islands. They have no resources,
but Tolstoia wants to colonize them." He touched buttons again, and a
map appeared on the wall showing the almost-round shape of the island
nation, with the islands and the tip of South Bergenland at the right.

Unterbaum went on: "They're uninhabited, so there isn't any objection
from the Demographic Commission, although it's unusual for one of the
hermit-states to expand. But there are certain features of the request
that make the Council inclined to go slow; or at least to want more
information."

He stopped, seeming to wait for a question, so Heidekopfer asked it.
"What are they?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lanzerotti answered, "To begin with, the place was founded in
accordance with the philosophy of Count Leo Tolstoi, a Russian
writer of some centuries back. The Russians discovered that a sect
of people who believed in his ideas was growing up in their country,
and considered it a threat to the organization of their state. They
couldn't dispose of the Tolstoians under the genocide laws, so they
appealed to the Council and it agreed to expatriate all the Tolstoians
the Russians could identify."

"Then it was a penal colony, like the Moon mines?" inquired Heidekopfer.

"No," said Lanzerotti. "As a matter of fact, when the announcement was
made, the Tolstoians came forward in numbers and identified themselves.
But they thought they were going to have a reservation set apart for
them in Russia itself, and when they found they were going to an island
on Venus, there was a certain amount of resentment."

"Do you think it still exists? That if they're allowed to get hold of
the islands, they'll do something drastic--say start a war?"

"Not after all these years," said Lanzerotti. "It's nearly three
centuries, and national resentments don't last that long without
something to feed on. Besides, pacifism was one of Tolstoi's doctrines."

"Then what are we supposed to look for?"

Lanzerotti spread his hands. "We don't know. That's what's worrying
the Diplomatic Division. Asking for more territory indicates a rising
birth-rate, but the kind of territory they're asking for doesn't
promise a rise serious enough to worry the Demographic Commission. We
don't consider it likely that Tolstoianism has become militant. But to
be honest, we just don't know."

Ann Starnes smiled. "It sounds like hunting for a needle in a haystack
when you don't even know whether there's any needle," she said.

"On the contrary," said Unterbaum, "we're fairly certain there is a
needle, and a sharp one. What we need to know is what kind of needle it
is before someone gets stuck with it. Listen--" He snapped up one of
the lids in his desk and spun a wheel of recording tape. "Planes aren't
allowed to land in Tolstoia, of course, but every once in a while
one comes down there, and occasionally a yacht or fishing-craft gets
wrecked on the coast. Now the normal procedure in such a case with a
hermit-state is that they hold survivors and notify someone to come and
get them. They stopped doing that about eighty years ago."

"What do you mean?" said Heidekopfer. "Stopped notifying or stopped
rescuing survivors?"

"It isn't quite certain," said Unterbaum, "but here's the sequence,
such as it is. Seventy-eight years ago Bernard Jones and his wife
disappeared while on a flight from MacNider to South Bergenland." He
indicated the map. "You see, that would carry them close to Tolstoia.
Three months later one of the fishing vessels, which are the only form
of communication the Tolstoians have, turned up at MacNider. It had
a letter from Mrs. Jones. She said her husband had died in a crash
landing, and she was staying in Tolstoia with the permission of the
authorities."

"Anything wrong about that?" asked Heidekopfer.

"There's nothing wrong with any of this," said Unterbaum, "at least as
far as that instance goes. It's other things. Nothing has been heard of
Mrs. Jones since. Seventy-six years ago, a musician named Bruno Zaleski
went on a yachting trip in the South Ocean with a party of three. They
never came back. After the usual interval letters came through from
all of them. They said they found Tolstoia a Venusian paradise and were
going to stay. Zaleski was heard from again. At the time of the next
incident, one year later, his brother received a letter telling how
happy he was."

       *       *       *       *       *

He paused for a moment. "The incident sixty-seven years ago was the
beginning of a new series. It concerned a man named Walter Artem,
another plane case. Like Jones, he disappeared. One of the Tolstoian
fishing-craft brought him back, but he was dead. They had preserved his
body carefully. I'll show you the picture."

He touched the stud and the watchers found themselves gazing at a
coffin, partly glassed so the occupant was visible to the waist. Rose
Lanzerotti gave a little cry and with reason, for the face within was
peculiarly horrible; bloated and suffused with blood, the neck swelling
out over a clearly visible rope.

"They explained he had hanged himself," Unterbaum continued.

"I have a question," said Ann Starnes. "Why did they go to all the
trouble of preserving him just the way he died? It sounds as though
they were afraid somebody might get suspicious."

"That's what I thought," said Unterbaum. "But there's an explanation.
The records show that the Tolstoians, even while they were in Russia,
showed a peculiar reverence for their dead when they were important
people. It's a hold-over from their twentieth century leader Lenin.
They preserve bodies this way so they're visible. The explanation
that came with Artem's body was that the Tolstoians didn't know how
important he was, but thought he might be big enough to deserve
preservative treatment."

"Polite of them," murmured Lanzerotti.

"Very," said Unterbaum. "Almost too polite. Because it was
repeated--since Artem there have been six cases of castaways on
Tolstoia committing suicide and being delivered at MacNider in
preserved form."

"All hangings?" asked Heidekopfer.

"No. One stabbing, three shootings, two overdoses of soporifics. There
are autopsy records on those, and they're legitimate."

"Seems a high proportion of suicides among the castaways," said
Heidekopfer. "Can anything be made of that?"

"Nobody seemed to think so," said Unterbaum. "Seven suicides out of a
given group over a period of eighty years isn't much, after all. The
thing that stirred up our office was the discovery that in the past
eighty years not one castaway has come back alive. They've either been
crated out as suicides or sent through letters saying they have decided
to become citizens of Tolstoia."

He paused a moment to let that sink in. "A number of these cases are
rather special. There was Carmenilla Baio, forty-four years ago. She
was a video dancer on a flight from MacNider to South Bergenland. Sent
out the usual letter saying she had decided her future lay in Tolstoia,
and followed it with another one a couple of years later. That's
ordinary enough, but the case made the news, and when we went through
the records, we found that when she disappeared she had been married
only three months and was passionately devoted to her husband. Her
second letter was written in a kind of code, and asked him to fake an
accident and join her there."

"Did he?" asked Ann Starnes.

"Any possibility of forgery in those letters?" asked Heidekopfer at the
same time.

Unterbaum turned to the girl. "No to your question. As for the other
one, Carmenilla Baio's private code was certainly no forgery."

Heidekopfer said, "It appears that the Tolstoians compel them to stay
there, and if they argue, bump them off. Is that it?"

"That would be a charge of genocide. I do not think--" began Lanzerotti.

"I don't either," said Unterbaum. "The Tolstoians wouldn't expose
themselves to such a thing, especially in view of their origins. No,
I'm convinced they have been quite honest, leaning over backward--as
witness the preserved suicides--but there's some factor in the equation
we don't know. And I won't deny that there's danger in the trip."

"Then I'm going," said Rosa Lanzerotti, decisively. She was a small
woman with vivid Italiote coloring.

Ann Starnes said, "Might as well square the party off, hadn't we? It
would be nice to have someone to handle the recording tapes and films."

Unterbaum frowned. "The Intercolonial Office--" he began.

Lanzerotti said, "I believe that psychologists recognize it as a
temperamental danger to send two men and one woman on a protracted
expedition."

"I ought to know better than to argue with a diplomat," said Unterbaum.




                                  II


The low spit guarding the harbor entrance was only a slightly deeper
blue than the water and perpetual overcast of Venus. Captain Ratterman
sighed, reported "No charts," and spoke into the communicator, "Cut
speed to eight knots, use full automatics on the bottom sonics,"
then he turned to the pair beside him on the bridge. "I'm not being
inhospitable. In fact, you're welcome to stay as long as you please.
But it's fair to warn you that we won't be docking for another three
hours."

"We love your company," said Ann Starnes, but Heidekopfer picked at her
arm, and led her toward the gangway. When they had reached the low,
flat bow with the water whispering softly beneath, he said, "How about
it, Ann? Why not marry me now and save trouble? You're going to anyway,
some day, and it might be a protection here."

She put a hand over one of his. "No, Bob. Not now. I'll give you
first place on the list, but I'm not going to marry you--or anybody
else--until I'm something more than a failure."

"You're no failure. The fact that you were selected for this job proves
it."

"Just a competent mechanical photographer, Bob--you needn't tell me.
I was picked because I had worked with you before, and your work is
important."

"Look ..." he started to say, then let it trail off. They had argued
the point so often it was like another trip on a merry-go-round. Ann
said, "I don't want to be just a wife, like Rosa Lanzerotti."

He moved. "Do you think she's--a failure?"

"No-o. Not within her own dimension. It just isn't mine. I want to be
something more important than a good mechanical photographer."

"Did it ever occur to you--" he began, and let it trail off as he
watched a formation of the odd Venusian batfish soar from the water
under the bow and sweep overhead to dive again in perfect alignment.
The ship swung. The long blue tongue of land came round on their right
and the harbor opened before them. There was a little grove of masts at
its depth clustered around what seemed to be docks, but he saw no town
on the shore behind.

"Think you can handle the language all right now?" asked Ann, a note of
banter in her question.

"If there hasn't been too much development in it since Tolstoia was
closed off. Communications thought a good many special terms might
have developed. What worries me more is the system of ideas. You were
lucky, not having to study Tolstoi. He had a philosophy, all right, but
I can't conceive how it could be translated into a practical method of
living, and neither can Vincent. Unless we do understand, it's going to
be hard to present a sympathetic picture."

"Photos are always sympathetic," said Ann. "The question is, do we want
to be? Let's go down and have a cup of coffee. The betting is there
won't be any where we're going."

The other two were in the cabin and the cup of coffee lasted until a
cessation of movement and a slight bump indicated they had arrived.
There was a bustle of gathering luggage; they went topside to find
the gangplank already laid to a dilapidated dock with holes in the
planking, alongside which little Tolstoian fishing-craft rose and
fell rhythmically to the swell. At the shore end of the dock a little
group of men in embroidered white smocks with square caps on their
heads looked on with an air of complete uninterest as the ambassadors
disbarked. There were four droshkies behind them; a house was visible
among drooping-branched Venusian trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ann set her camera to automatic and hooked it to her belt as Lanzerotti
led the way along the dock. Three of the men detached themselves from
the group and waited. As the ambassadors approached, one of them
clasped his hands together, said, "Behrmann, Andrei Pavlich" and took
a step back. "Vikhranov, Nicolai Leonovich," said the second, and the
third, "Kazetzky, Pyotr Ilyich." He was a tall man, with a long, hooked
nose and an expression of deep melancholy.

Lanzerotti stepped forward. "We are the representatives of the
Interplanetary Council," he said. "My name is Vincent Lanzerotti with
the rank of ambassador. This is Mrs. Lanzerotti, and Miss Starnes, our
photographer and Mr. Heidekopfer, the official observer. We have a good
deal of baggage."

The three looked at each other. Behrmann was a short man with a broad
Slavic face. He said, "Bring it forward. Transportation has been
provided to the seat of the patriarch."

Heidekopfer remembered that somewhere in Tolstoi there was something
about not waiting on other people; also, that he was not going to have
as much difficulty with the language as he had feared. Behrmann's
accent was a little funny, but he put his sentences together in the
classical manner and with the right words. The sailors were loading
their baggage onto power-dollies. Vikhranov said, "The ambassador will
take the first droshky, with myself and Pyotr Ilyich. Andrei Pavlich
will accompany you in the second." He waved a hand toward Ann and
Heidekopfer.

As their guides led the way toward the vehicles, Heidekopfer said, "One
thing surprises me, if you don't mind a snap judgment. I would have
expected to find more of a city around your port."

Behrmann turned his head with a smile. "We have no cities," he said.
"They are destroyers of nature, and without communion with nature there
is no happiness."

That was good Tolstoi, all right, thought Heidekopfer, and said to
Ann, "They don't take very good care of their roads here, do they?"

"I should say not--and my mud-shedders are all nicely packed in
the baggage, too." She lifted a neatly clad foot that was already
plentifully marked with black Venusian mire. "Their trees are nice,
though, and look how even the rows in that field are." She aimed the
camera at it for a moment, and spoke to Behrmann in Russian; "Where are
the fishermen for the boats?"

"Oh, this is Thursday," he said, standing aside so she could get in the
droshky. "On this day they work in the fields. It is good to work in
the fields, and we have a law that all who follow other forms of work
shall do so for one day a week."

"That's not a bad law for an agricultural community," observed
Heidekopfer. "I suppose you are practically all agriculture? But
what do you do for manufactured articles--like shoes and glass and
newspapers?"

In the droshka ahead Vikhranov raised his hand; both drivers
shouted something like "Ya-ya!" simultaneously, cracked their whips
tremendously, and the procession was off along a dirt road in a
decidedly poor state of repair.

"I am not sure I understand your question," said Behrmann. "Shoes or
glass, when we want them we make them. As for newspapers, they are
forbidden by the word of the Master. I know there must be such things,
because they are mentioned, but I have never seen one and do not really
know what they are."

       *       *       *       *       *

The road had begun to rise toward a cut in a range of low hills.
"Uh-huh," said Heidekopfer, "and I suppose radio falls under the
prohibition on newspapers. Well, let me put it this way; suppose
someone had an idea for a new kind of machine. Would he have to make
all the parts himself?"

"There is a law against machines. They interfere with simplicity."

"But doesn't anyone ever have an idea for a machine so brilliant that
he simply has to make it in spite of the law?"

"How could he? It is against the law."

"Do you mean that the law here is always obeyed?"

"Always. That is the superiority of Tolstoia to all other peoples.
Those who come to our happy country by accident never wish to leave
when they find that through the doctrines of the Master we have
established the brotherhood of men."

Ann gave a little giggle. "I know," said Heidekopfer rapidly in
English, "I think we can take that with a cellar full of salt." He
switched to Russian; "Then you have no crime?"

"In our happy country?" said Behrmann. "No. Look how beautiful is the
arrangement of the cows in that field?"

Heidekopfer sighed. Then he said, "Tell me something about the
government of your country. I don't want to be too inquisitive, but I
have to report on these things when I get back."

Behrmann's face flashed a frown. "It is hard to explain this to an
outsider, but we know of what you call government only from the works
of the Master, who spoke of it as it was in the old days, in the old
Russia, the holy Russia." He lifted a hand to his face, and Heidekopfer
was dumbfounded to see the man was wiping away a tear. "There is the
patriarch, but he is only the general secretary of the Supreme Soviet."

"Well, who makes the laws?"

"The Supreme Soviet."

"How are they elected--or chosen?"

"We all agree on them."

Heidekopfer was saved from going mad by a cry from Ann Starnes. They
had passed through the cut into the hills and now, as they swung
round the brow of one, a wide valley lay spread before them under the
soft Venusian light. It was dotted with little clumps of trees and
had houses here and there, mostly low and with curiously bound-down
thatched roofs. With the green fields and grazing animals, it made
a scene of truly pastoral beauty. Ann said, "Tell him to stop for a
minute, will you? I want to get this."

Behrmann looked at Heidekopfer. "Is it your will also that we stop?"

"Sure, why not," said he. "Isn't even necessary to ask if the
girl-friend wants it. Do you have a law about women getting permission
for what they want to do, too?"

"No. Stop, Pavel Josephovitch." He turned to Heidekopfer; "But the will
of one must become the will of all."

"Now I don't understand," said Heidekopfer, as Ann adjusted her camera
to take a sweeping panorama of the valley. "Would you mind explaining?"

"In happy Tolstoia when the desire of one person would cause others
to do what they might not desire, all must agree before it is done.
To allow anything else would be compulsion, and as the Master says;
'Anything that savors of compulsion is harmful.'"

"I can see where there must be some prize family arguments in happy
Tolstoia," said Ann, in English. "Would I like to be married to a man
if I had to get his agreement every time I wanted to buy a new hat? No."

"If you'll marry me you won't have to--" began Heidekopfer, but
Behrmann was speaking again:

"It was not always so. When our people came from holy Russia, they were
like others on earth, with only the desire for universal brotherhood
and the writings of the Master to guide them. But there was so much
love among them and they obeyed the law so well that a hundred
thirty-one of our years ago, brotherhood was attained and the will of
all became the will of the one. Now it is possible for us to extend the
privilege of agreement to outsiders. This is why none who have felt it
wish to leave."

       *       *       *       *       *

By this time, they had almost caught up to the leading droshky, which
was just turning into a tree-lined alley at the end of which stood
quite the largest house they had yet seen. It had two stories and a
couple of jutting wings beside the central door. "This where we're
going?" asked Ann.

"The residence of the Patriarch Pitrim Androvich Samsonov," said
Behrmann, with the sonorous accents of one who is aware of saying
something impressive.

The others got out and waited for them. When they had assembled
Vikhranov led the procession, opening the door himself, and they found
themselves in a neat hall with whitewashed walls and plain chairs
standing against them. The light from the door was helped out by a
couple of candles in bracket holders on the wall. Vikhranov said, "You
will wait here," and turned through a door to the right. It could not
have been more than a couple of minutes before a tall, strong man
came out, wiping his hands on his smock, as though he had just been
interrupted in something. Heidekopfer experienced an almost physical
shock at the emanation of personality that seemed to flow from him. He
might equally have been a general or a prophet, but either way there
was no doubting that if he wanted somebody to do something, they would
probably do it. Ann too was affected. She lifted her camera and let
the photographing light play on the patriarch, but he moved his head
slightly, the light went out and she put the camera back to her belt,
an expression of awe suffusing her face.

Vikhranov said, "Little Father, these are the ambassadors from the
Council. They did not tell me their names."

Lanzerotti gave him a peculiar look and said, "I am the ambassador and
my name is Lanzerotti. This is--"

The big man lifted a hand. "It is good for simplicity to address all
persons by their patronymics," he said. "Mine is Pitrim Androvich."
Instead of looking at Lanzerotti he was, staring fixedly at Ann.

"Oh, I see," said the diplomat. "Well by that system, I suppose
you'd have to call me Vincent Guidovich. And this is my wife,
Rosa--uh--Mariovna."

Heidekopfer and Ann similarly identified themselves. Samsonov said, "We
will show you your rooms. Is it your custom to change the clothes after
travelling?"

Rosa Lanzerotti spoke for the group, "I think I'd like to change my
shoes at least. They got rather muddy."

Samsonov turned to Kazetzky: "Pyotr Ilyich, will you and the
horse-drivers bring the baggage of the ambassadors to the rooms in the
west wing, in the name of the Master? There is a special law that this
service may be performed for them."

He reached out a hand, calmly took one of Ann's, and began to lead her
along the hall toward a door on the opposite side. There didn't seem to
be anything to do but follow.

"Do you have any children?" said Samsonov, as he turned down a corridor
at right angles to the first. "It is Nature's way of life for women to
have children."

Ann laughed. "I'm afraid not yet. I'm going to leave that until after
I'm married."

"It is not against our law for women to have children before." Still
holding the girl's hand, he touched a door. "This room will belong to
you, Vincent Guidovich."

The next was for Heidekopfer. The opened door showed a clean, plain
room with Venusian yellow poppies in a vase on a writing table, a bed
and a washstand with a pitcher of water. The walls were bare and there
didn't seem to be any plumbing. Outside the baggage was arriving.
Heidekopfer claimed his own, unpacked and put on a pair of clean shoes,
and went out to find Ann's door open and the girl engaged in a similar
task.

He grumbled, "If that big bruiser keeps on making such a play for you,
it's going to be bad for international relations."

She laughed. "He said he loved me--but in the brotherhood of man,
everyone must love everyone else. Then he let me take his picture.
Let's go check with the Lanzerottis before going to the audience." She
stood up.




                                  III


Lanzerotti was zipping open a bottle-container. "Well, Robert
Murrayovich, first impressions."

"About what I would have expected from a regime founded on the ideas of
Tolstoi," said Heidekopfer, "and a rather screwy set-up. But my general
impression was not unfavorable. They seem to be running the place with
a decent respect for human values and each other."

"'The will of all is the will of one,'" quoted Lanzerotti. "Did they
say that to you, too?" He took a couple of bottles of champagne from
the container. "I'm going to give our hosts a treat. It never hurts in
opening diplomatic negotiations. I suppose it's too early to ask yet,
but you didn't run onto anything that might be a clue to why we aren't
getting the castaways back?"

"Nothing that you'd call a clue, but something that might have
a connection. Our guide told us that Tolstoia had attained the
brotherhood of man a hundred thirty-one Venus years ago. That's
eighty-one earth years, and strikes awful close to the date when
Unterbaum said the disappearances began."

"Even so," said Ann, "I can't see a whole group of people who have been
brought up in civilization giving it up for this." She swept her hand
around the room, which was as bare as the others. "Especially that
dancer he mentioned."

"A point," conceded Lanzerotti. "Shall we go?"

He led the way back to the main hall. The door from which Samsonov had
emerged stood open, and there was a wide table in the room beyond, laid
with an array of dishes which held any number of hors d'oeuvres, while
eight or nine men and women were gathered about Samsonov. "You know
your Russian customs, all right," Heidekopfer murmured to Lanzerotti as
the patriarch came forward.

He explained that these were the central committee of the Supreme
Soviet; there were introductions and Lanzerotti presented his
champagne, which Heidekopfer had to open because none of the Tolstoians
seemed to know how.

Vikhranov said admiringly, "How beautiful is the play of bubbles in
this beverage!" as the ambassador lifted his glass, saying, "To the
future of Tolstoia!" bowed to Samsonov and drank.

The patriarch's return bow was a trifle stiff, but he sipped--and
immediately appeared to become the victim of a revolution, spitting the
champagne on the floor and coughing with bulging eyes, while the others
gathered round him with expressions of sympathy. After a moment of
gasping recovery, he pushed them aside and said to Lanzerotti, "I taste
alcohol! Is it not so?"

"To be sure," said the ambassador. "You can't very well make champagne
without it. Please accept my sincerest apologies for offering it to you
if it offends you, however."

"We have a law against it in Tolstoia! The drinking of alcohol leads to
failure to recognize the brotherhood of man!"

Heidekopfer said to Ann, "They had a law against alcohol in America
once, too, but as far as I can remember, it didn't keep people from
drinking."

"Hush," she said, "I like to watch the way he holds his head."

       *       *       *       *       *

Her eyes were fixed on Samsonov, who was returning the glance with
interest as he talked to the ambassador. Heidekopfer growled, helped
himself to some of the _zakuski_ (which seemed to consist largely of
various kinds of pickled fish and vegetables, with some of the soft
Venusian _kara_ nuts) and moved over to join the group around Rosa
Lanzerotti. Kazetzky was just saying, "It would pleasure me greatly,
little mother, if it is your will to allow me to show you some of the
natural beauty of happy Tolstoia tomorrow, while the others are making
their official observations."

"Thank you," she said, "but I usually go with my husband on inspection
trips, when there are any, and I think I'd rather like to--" She broke
off suddenly with a frown between her brows, and Heidekopfer noticed
that the others in the group were staring at her with a quite peculiar
intensity. Kazetzky was swinging in his fingers some kind of little
bright ornament that he wore on a chain around his neck.

Rosa Lanzerotti said slowly, "I think it would be very nice. You'll
have to call for me, though. I have no idea of what hours you keep in
Tolstoia."

Kazetzky's lugubrious countenance took on an expression that was almost
a smile. "It shall be as you desire, little mother. The will of one is
the will of all."

The group seemed to split apart, and Vikhranov's voice said in
Heidekopfer's ear, "Will you try some of our Tolstoian beer, Robert
Murrayovich?"

"I thought you had a law against alcohol," said Heidekopfer, accepting
the proffered mug.

"But beer is not alcohol. No one could become drunken from it. Besides,
we have a law against becoming drunken, too."

The hell you say, thought Heidekopfer privately, and quaffed. It was
about as he suspected; the beer was certainly not 3.2. He said, "What's
the official schedule for us tomorrow?"

"In the morning we visit a school and see how children are educated in
happy Tolstoia. If there is time we will also visit the grave of the
Patriarch Ilarion Triunfovich. In the afternoon, you will see one of
our collective farms. On the following day a picnic has been arranged.
It will last all day in accordance with our custom."

Heidekopfer frowned. "The school may be some help, and I don't doubt
that the farm will be. But in the nature of the report we have to make,
a visit to one of your law courts would be a lot more interesting than
a picnic, and a sitting of your Supreme Soviet more interesting still."

Vikhranov's flat face showed disapproval. "The sittings of the Supreme
Soviet are in secret by law," he said. "We would have to pass a special
law admitting you, and I am not sure but it would be concisionary."

"Excuse me. You seem to have developed a term there I have not heard
before. What does 'concisionary' mean?"

The guide's disapproval surprisingly became sullenness. "Am I to blame
if you cannot understand good Russian?"

"We went to some trouble to learn it, even getting records of Russian
as it was spoken at the time Tolstoia was founded, and I'm sorry if
I've given offense. But my friend, I'd have you remember that we're
here to do you a favor, not the other way round. Have you got a
dictionary?"

"We have no need of dictionaries in happy Tolstoia. They are a part
of culture and culture is fatal to happiness. It is set down in the
Master's own words."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was saved from developing into a hassle as someone touched
Heidekopfer's arm to present him to Anna Golyevna Samsonova, a small
woman with dark hair, high cheek-bones and a mouth that seemed set
in a perpetual mysterious smile. She said, "Have you been in holy
Rrrrrussia, on earth, Robert Murrayovich?"

"No, I haven't had that pleasure," he said, and added gallantly, "But
I'm sure this is better. You have made life so much simpler."

"Yes, that is true. Here in happy Tolstoia the will of all is the will
of one, and the will of all is toward the good of all. All are happy."

Her eyes darted past him, and he half-turned in time to see that
Samsonov was certainly displaying indisputable signs of happiness as
he talked to Ann, and what was a good deal worse, the girl was showing
no signs of unhappiness. Rather hastily, he said, "Don't you ever have
disagreements?"

"Oh, yes. But they do not last long. And if one is not attuned, then he
takes the cure."

"I see," said Heidekopfer, although he was reasonably sure he did not,
and was saved from more of this disjointed conversation by the ringing
of a bell, which Mrs. Samsonov said announced dinner. She led the way
through the side door to another large room, where there was a table
laid for dinner with steaming dishes already in place. Heidekopfer
noticed that the plates were of wood, and of the flatware beside them
only the knife-blades were metal. Everyone seemed to seat him or
herself where they pleased and fell to work at once on the food without
ceremony.

Mrs. Samsonov said, "You may find our food difficult. People who come
here often do at first. But we have a law against eating meat except
while taking the cure."

Difficult was the word for it, reflected Heidekopfer, munching away
at something that appeared to be a combination of cabbage and boiled
nuts with a sour sauce. He said, "You seem to have laws about almost
everything. Clothes, too?"

She surveyed him with an air of puzzlement, and he noticed that in the
candlelight her eyes had a singularly deep quality. "Of course. How
would we know how to act without laws?"

"Tell me, what does 'concisionary' mean?"

"It means--" she gave him that glance again "--I don't quite know how
to define it, but something against the will of all. As you stay in
happy Tolstoia, you will understand." For a moment, looking into her
eyes, it seemed to Heidekopfer that he almost did understand. Then she
said, "Alexei Ivanovich is concisionary."

"Who?"

"Alexei Ivanovich Dubrassov. The traditionalist. He wished to become
patriarch when Pitrim Androvich did, but he would have led Tolstoia
back to the days before the brotherhood of man was achieved." She
looked around the table and clapped her hands as a signal that the meal
was over, and a couple of girls came hurrying in to gather the plates.

Heidekopfer said, "Pardon me, but didn't someone tell me that you had a
law against serving one another?"

"It is the will of all that the patriarch be served," she said. Nobody
seemed to be leaving the table and the reason became apparent when two
men with goose-necked stringed instruments came in, accompanied by a
girl who began to sing as they played. The music had certain haunting
strains, but was so disjointed that Heidekopfer decided he didn't like
it, and looked down the table to see how the others were taking it. He
got a shock. Samsonov, seated between Rosa Lanzerotti and Ann, had his
arm around the latter's shoulders, and she was leaning back with her
eyes half-closed and the smile of a smug kitten.




                                  IV


Ann's voice sounded vaguely apologetic as she explained to Heidekopfer.
"His wife didn't seem to mind," she said. "I was watching her."

"That isn't the point," said Heidekopfer. "It isn't even the point that
I minded a hell of a lot. As you have so often informed me, I don't own
you or even have a claim on you, much as I'd like to. I just want to
know _why_ you did it."

The girl's lips closed and her pretty face set in obstinate lines.
"Because I wanted to. Because I felt like it. For the same reason I've
kissed you a few times."

"But you've never kissed me with about sixteen people looking on. And
may I point out that the reason the castaways stayed in Tolstoia was
because they wanted to, too. I want to know what made you want to do
it."

"And you're going to put the whip on me to find out," said the girl,
but with a smile. "No use, Bob--call it an uncontrollable impulse."

Someone tapped at the door and it was Lanzerotti. "Want to come into my
room?" he said. "I'd like to compare notes, and if we do it here, two
of us will have to sit on the bed."

"All right," said Heidekopfer. "Rosa back yet?"

"No, still communing with nature and Pyotr Ilyich Kazetzky." He glanced
at his watch, saying, "I forgot that's no good here on the different
system of time, but I'd guess that it's a good hour before bedtime, so
I'm not going to worry. Come on." He led the way down the hall, and
threw open the door.

"Notice there isn't a lock in the place?" said Heidekopfer. "It may
really be true that they've abolished crime."

"I didn't see any either," said Lanzerotti, "but we have to be careful
about drawing conclusions from guided tours. The Russians have always
been great on setting up Potemkin villages."

"Oh, back in the old imperial days an Empress named Catherine went on
a progress through the country to see how it was getting along under
her prime minister, Potemkin. He went ahead of her and had villages set
up, just the dummy fronts of houses, with actors to play the part of
villagers. Back in the Soviet period they used to pull the same trick,
to show tourists how prosperous the country was, only they did it with
real model villages and factories and people working in them."

"I don't think they're doing that with us," said Heidekopfer. "On the
way to the school, I asked to turn off and see one of the farms we
passed, and it all seemed perfectly normal and in key with the rest."

"Shall I get the pictures?" said Ann. "That white wall is rather rough,
but I imagine it will take projection."

"No, they're for the record," said Lanzerotti. "I just want a verbal
report and impressions." He stepped across the room and opened the
sound box for recording.

"Well," said Heidekopfer, "we went to a school this morning. It was
quite small, but had children of all ages up to about sixteen. It was
more like a manual training institute than what we'd call a school.
Most of them were learning to use tools, and some of them working in a
garden, and doing a pretty good job of it, I'd say. There was only one
class with books."

"I asked about that," said Ann. "They practically don't have any books,
and those they do have are hand set and hand printed."

"Of course, I can understand their not using microfilm," said
Heidekopfer. "That would run into their prohibition of machines. But I
don't quite see how they can claim a printing press isn't a machine."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lanzerotti smiled. "Logic isn't the long suit of most theorists," he
said. "However, my opinion is generally favorable. They seem to be
decent people with a high standard of morality, and in spite of the
Potemkin village angle, it looks good. There's just one thing--we still
haven't found any explanation of why the castaways didn't come back.
And that is primarily why we came here."

Heidekopfer said, "We can add a second point to that now--or perhaps
it's part of the same one. Did you notice Ann after dinner last night
while the music was playing?"

Lanzerotti said, "I did notice that she seemed on fairly good terms
with our host on somewhat short notice, but I assumed it was her own
business."

"The trouble is that she can't tell why she did it," said Heidekopfer.

A little spot of red appeared in the girl's cheeks. "I told you because
I felt like it," she said, "and I'm not particularly grateful for being
pumped about it! Excuse me, I've got to charge my camera while you
discuss my case." She got up, avoided Heidekopfer's protesting hand,
and slipped out the door.

Lanzerotti said, "The case seems to call for diplomacy, and as
the diplomat of the expedition, I prescribe a cooling-off period.
Meanwhile, continue."

"There isn't much to continue with," said Heidekopfer, rubbing his chin
thoughtfully. "You know as well as I do that her behavior with Samsonov
wasn't--well, what you'd normally expect, even if it wasn't disgraceful
or anything. But it seems to me that it's of a piece with the behavior
of the castaways who decided to stay in Tolstoia. In both cases, there
was what she herself described as an uncontrollable impulse to do
something not normally done."

"Evidence of pattern," said Lanzerotti. "You think pressure was applied
from outside. But how? Was the food or the beer drugged? No, it
couldn't have been that; we ate and drank the same things, and weren't
affected."

"I don't know," said Heidekopfer. "It could have been a special for
her. Samsonov hardly took his eyes off her from the first time he saw
her."

"I--" began Lanzerotti, when a tap sounded on the door and Rosa
Lanzerotti came into the room. "Hello, dear," she said, "have a good
day?"

"Good with a little mystery in it, which we were just discussing. And
you?"

She laughed. "The same. In fact, if you're up to a trip, the day isn't
over yet."

"What do you mean?"

"There's a man outside with a droshky to take us to see someone who
wants to meet you. I'll tell you the rest as we go. It might be a good
idea if you come along, too, Bob. Wait till I get a recorder." She went
over to get one of the small size that fits in a pocket, and the other
two stood up. Heidekopfer stopped to tap at Ann's door, but she didn't
answer, so he stopped at his own room long enough to slip a light in
his pocket, as it had grown quite dark outside. There was no one in
the dimly-lighted halls; apparently most good Tolstoians had decided
to call it a night. Outside, the heavy night mist which pinch-hits
for most of Venus' rain was drifting past in streamers, condensing on
everything it touched; Heidekopfer felt drops run down his face.

Rosa said, "He's waiting at the corner of the road, and I was warned
not to let myself be seen, so you had better not put on the light now.

"Damn!" said Lanzerotti, stumbling. "All right, Rosa, what's the story?"

"We drove around most of the day looking at various views, while this
Kazetzky person explained to me how beautiful it all was. It was, too.
Stopped at a house where they were weaving cloth on a wooden hand
loom and had some lunch, then drove around again. Kazetzky is not an
interesting talker, as I began to realize about the fifteenth time
he repeated his line about nature and happiness being connected. But
toward dinner time he said, 'Ah! I shall take you to have a repast with
a man who has in him much of the spirit of the Master.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

They had reached the end of the drive, and in the dark could just
make out the loom of the droshky. A voice said, "Little mother?" Rosa
answered, "Okay, it's me," and Heidekopfer flashed his light briefly to
enable them to climb into the vehicle. When they were seated and the
driver had stirred his horse into action with the inevitable crack of
the whip, Rosa went on, "He took me a little distance, little enough
so it looked as though he'd been intending to do that all along, to a
house almost as big as the one we're living in. Only the owner wasn't
living in it, he was living in a tent pitched in a field outside by
a stream. His name is Dubrassov, by the way. Kazetzky introduced me,
and then went to the house and brought the family out and introduced
them, too, ten or twelve of them. Dubrassov said I must bring you here
at once, tonight, before it was too late, to hear something terribly
important. They all said yes, I must, and then asked me whether I
wanted to eat with the family or Dubrassov. Of course I said Dubrassov,
and that was my big mistake. The meal consisted of a whitish liquid
that tasted like turpentine and burned like it--"

"Kumiss," said Heidekopfer. "It has a kick, too."

"Apparently they have exceptions to their law about liquor. Anyway,
I drank water. As I say, the meal consisted entirely of this kumiss
and meat, nothing else, and we had to eat it with our fingers. He
apologized for it, I will say, and said he was taking a cure of some
kind. A diet like that would cure me of wanting to live."

For a moment there was silence as the droshky jounced along. Then
Lanzerotti's voice said out of the dark, "Evidently there are
disagreements, even in happy Tolstoia, and I'm grateful for the
opportunity to learn what they are. But this whole business has
a rather conspiratorial odor, and I'm not sure that a diplomatic
representative should be mixed up in it. If you don't mind my saying
so, Rosa, you might have given us a chance to discuss all the angles
before getting us out of the house."

"But I couldn't do anything else, could I?" Her voice sounded hurt.

The horse's feet clopped in the muddy road. Heidekopfer made a sound
like the beginning of speech, then stopped.

"Beg pardon?" said Rosa.

"I just wondered--why didn't you come with us to see the school today?
I should have thought you'd find it interesting."

"Oh, there's plenty of time. Besides, if I hadn't gone out to see the
country with Kazetzky, I wouldn't have met Dubrassov."

Lanzerotti stirred in his place and said, "By the way, Bob, while you
and Ann were looking over that farm this afternoon, I addressed myself
to the matter of communications. They don't have to have any, except
by word of mouth; the society is so static that there isn't anything
requiring quick action by a large number of people, and they can afford
to wait."

"Find out anything more about the governmental system?"

"They're disinclined to talk, but I gather it's an almost unchanged
adaptation of the Soviet system. Which might be expected, seeing their
ancestors came from there, and there's nothing in Tolstoi that would
conflict with the system. As a matter of historical process, I'm a bit
surprised that there should have been so little evolution--"

"Hell!" said Heidekopfer. "Vincent, when you get to talking theory,
you're three parsecs over my head. I just want to know what makes
things tick in a practical way."

"The difference is doubtless one of the reasons why we were associated
in this mission," said Lanzerotti evenly, and that seemed to put a
period to the conversation in the dark until Rosa said, "This must be
it. See that light in the tent?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Heidekopfer flipped on his light and set it in the catch-ring of his
hat. The beam diffused through the drifting mist to catch a wooden
house painted white and with shutters, on quaint, old-fashioned lines.
It was all dark. The droshky pushed on past, bumping off the road
across a field toward where a light showed dimly through the wall of
a circular tent, and came to a halt. Lanzerotti jumped out and handed
Rosa down after him. She approached and said, "May I come in?"

A deep voice boomed, "In the name of the Master, enter, little mother,"
and the three went in. They saw a powerful looking man, not as big
as Samsonov, but with the same indefinable air of force, who barked,
"Dubrassov, Alexei Ivanovich," and promptly sat down in the only chair
in the tent.

This time the ambassadors knew the right reply. They made it, Rosa sat
down on the bed, the others curled up on the ground floor of the tent
and waited. Dubrassov glanced from Lanzerotti to Heidekopfer and back
with quick motions of his head and neck thrust forward, as though he
were trying to see into their minds. Finally he said, "They make me
take the cure as concisionary, but it is not I who am the concisionary,
it is Pitrim Androvich."

"Indeed," said Lanzerotti.

"It is Pitrim Androvich," Dubrassov repeated. "The will of all is the
will of one, but he makes the will of one the will of all."

"I thought the two went together," said Heidekopfer.

The burning eyes were fixed on him. "Are you the ambassador? It is
anti-social to interrupt deliberations."

Heidekopfer felt himself flush a little, but said nothing. He could
hear the buzz of Rosa's recorder.

"I am the ambassador," said Lanzerotti smoothly. "But I am accredited
to the government of Tolstoia, and so far as I am aware, you are a
private citizen. However, I will be glad to hear anything you have to
say that may affect the question of whether the World Council should
allow Tolstoia to colonize the Wrightley Islands."

"Pitrim Androvich wishes the world, even holy Russia." He paused
and blew his nose at the name, his Adam's apple moving. Heidekopfer
remembered Behrmann. "You should n-n-n--" He stopped suddenly, gagging
for breath, his eyes bulging, and then closed his mouth and tried
again. "The achievement of universal brotherhood makes the will of all
the will of one. It is possible to control the will of one for--" He
gagged again, his mouth open, then closed his eyes with a grimace and
said, "It is against the law to say more. Beware! And go, in the name
of the Master."




                                   V


The fact that Venusian trees of every species tend to trail their
branches on the ground makes no particular difference; with
approximately one day's direct sunshine during a Venusian year, shade
is less important than what the tree produces and the decoration it
provides. Neither, reflected Heidekopfer, would it particularly matter
to people who were used to it that everything was mildly damp to the
touch. The members of the Supreme Soviet scattered on the bank of the
little natural amphitheatre around him seemed to be having a thoroughly
good time, laughing, talking, drinking beer and listening to the music
of the goose-necked instruments, which tinkled from group to group. He
felt lonely, and Ann was somewhere else.

There was a touch on his shoulder and Lanzerotti sat down beside him,
saying in a low voice, "All right, but talk fast. And smile now and
then, so it will look casual. I understand how you couldn't discuss it
last night with Rosa in the droshky."

"She got angry," said Heidekopfer. "Just like Ann."

"And you think you have the explanation?"

"You said something about pattern. It makes one. Mass hypnotism."

Lanzerotti gestured with one hand, as though he were pointing to the
group around them. "I find that difficult to credit. The thing hasn't
existed since the days of the dictators and their wars."

"Remember that these people are the overflow of a totalitarian state.
And I don't mean mass hypnotism with one person hypnotizing many, as
among the old dictators, but with the group exerting mass pressure on
one person. The will of all is the will of one."

Lanzerotti smiled. "I think you misinterpret. There is undoubtedly some
pressure from what might be called public opinion, but--"

"Listen!" cried Heidekopfer, desperately. "It all fits together.
Kazetzky twirled something bright in his fingers when he asked Rosa to
spend the day with him, and all of them rallied round. They've achieved
some kind of mental integration and they want to expand--"

Lanzerotti laid a hand on his knee. "You're talking too loud. And I
think on the wrong lines. The nature of this development is essentially
elymosynnary--"

Heidekopfer experienced a sensation of being surrounded by stone
walls as two of the Tolstoians stood over them. One was a member of
the Supreme Soviet whose name he had, of course, forgotten, and the
other was a remarkably pretty girl with ash-blond hair pulled back
from a well-shaped forehead. He got up, as the man from the Supreme
Soviet said, "Sonia Grigorevna is the cousin of the patriarch Pitrim
Androvich."

"Heidekopfer, Robert Murrayovich," said Heidekopfer, dutifully.

Lanzerotti repeated his part of the formula, but the girl seemed to be
concentrating on the reporter. "Is it not a joy to be in this beautiful
countryside?" she said, looking at him directly.

"I find it so."

"Would it be your will to let me show you some of the flowers of happy
Tolstoia?" she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

If he were right, this was his chance to get one of them apart from the
rest, where the group pressure would presumably be less effective. He
said, "It would please me very much."

She reached out a hand to take his. "Come," and led the way across the
bowl of green. A group of men and women stood in their path. "We are
going to look at flowers together," the girl announced gaily. "Pitrim
Androvich thinks it would be good."

They all seemed to find something delightfully humorous in this, and
there was a burst of laughter as they crowded round. "Flowers are
nature's key to happiness!" boomed one of the men, patting Heidekopfer
on the shoulder. "You will see what fine ones we produce in happy
Tolstoia."

He was suddenly aware that they were staring at him with a peculiar
intensity in the midst of their animated movements, and of a slight
tension, like the beginning of a headache, at the back of his neck.
This must be it; he was being high-pressured for some purpose. It was
understandable how they would call this the brotherhood of man ... how
they had developed the ability to put mass hypnotic pressure on any
individual ... how the castaways had been similarly pressured into
adopting the Tolstoian way of life ... how--

Sonia Grigorevna's voice came through his reverie, "Are you dreaming,
little father? Let us go."

He shook himself a little, like a dog coming out of water. "By all
means, let us go." She was really beautiful, not with the broad Slavic
features at all, but a narrow face and high cheek-bones that must have
come from some remote Nordic ancestor.

The others waved hands as she led him up the gentle slope at the edge
of the bowl, and pushed through a screen of trees into a field of lush
grass. There was a string of bushes toward the river-bank. "The best
flowers are there," said Sonia.

"Tell me," he said, "when someone really does not want to do something
the rest want, how do you make them do it?"

She gave him a glance of puzzlement. "I do not understand. We do not
make them do it. It is the word of the Master that everything savoring
of compulsion is harmful."

Pretty neat, he thought ... just like the Russian Soviets of the old
days, who got away with dictatorship by calling it democracy. Aloud he
said, "I know. But don't you ever have--deviationists?"

"Oh no. The will of all is the will of one. That is the brotherhood of
man. But if a person doubts whether his will is fully given, he takes
the cure. That is the law. This way."

She pushed through the bushes and they were on a slope above the river,
starred with red poppy-like flowers. "Are they not beautiful? Let us
sit here and contemplate them. The contemplation of nature is the
source of happiness."

Heidekopfer lowered himself to the damp grass, blessing the forethought
that had led him to dress in waterproof nylon. "They're very nice," he
said, "but when did you Tolstoians discover the brotherhood of man?"

She settled herself comfortably against him. "I am not certain of the
date. But it was in the time of the Patriarch Ilarion Triunfovich,
long ago. Is it your will that we cease talking of material things and
address ourselves to what we see?" She snuggled against him, and the
pressure was not at all unendurable.

He placed a hand on one of hers. "Just one more question. When people
come from the--outside, do you always will them to stay?"

"We do not need to. Everyone wishes to stay in happy Tolstoia. See how
that blossom shakes on its stalk."

Except those who come back in boxes, he thought, and wondered how he
could broach the subject, but before he could think out a way, she
lifted his hand beneath her own and pressed it softly against her
cheek. He turned to look at her; her lips were slightly parted as she
lifted her lovely face toward his....

[Illustration: He turned to look at her; her lips were slightly parted
as she lifted her lovely face toward his.]

And it struck him like a thunderbolt why the others had laughed when
Sonia said they were going to see flowers at Samsonov's suggestion, and
what the pressure had been on him for. He said abruptly, "Do you know
where Ann went--the photographer who was with us?"

"To look at flowers with Pitrim Androvich." Her glance was neither
disappointed nor hostile, merely a trifle wide-eyed as though she had
just discovered something frightening. She let his hand drop.




                                  VI


So that was the play, thought Heidekopfer, a trifle grimly. The
Patriarch was going to make off with Ann while providing him with a
substitute and putting the heat on him to accept. He scrambled up and
reached a hand to Sonia Grigorevna. "Let's get back to the others, if
it is your will."

Later, back with the others Heidekopfer confided his ideas. "If you
will forgive me," said Lanzerotti, "I find your theory slightly
fantastic."

"So do I," said Rosa. "I haven't been conscious of any sense of
pressure or the headachy feeling you mention, and I haven't done a
thing I didn't really want to do."

They were sitting in the ambassador's room at the Samsonov house, and
it was not yet dark enough to make the candles necessary, although
they were lighted. Ann wasn't there. Heidekopfer drew a long breath.
"The only thing I can suggest is that you have been influenced too,
to some extent. Come on, look at it objectively. Won't you admit the
possibility?"

"As a matter of principle, yes," said Lanzerotti. "This is an island
culture in the sense that it has been cut off from contact with others,
and I'm well aware that island races often develop on aberrant lines.
But I see no signs of the compulsions you mention."

"Not even Dubrassov? When he tried to warn us about something and
couldn't?"

Lanzerotti smiled. "I'm afraid Dubrassov's case is a rather simple one
of hallucination. It was explained to me this afternoon. They don't
lock up their mental cases here; they simply let them take that cure,
which amounts to a kind of shock-treatment in view of their usual
habits."

"Damn it!" said Heidekopfer, but Lanzerotti held up a hand. "Listen,
Bob," he said, "I quite understand your annoyance and the reason for
it. And I will say that I'm a little surprised at Ann's behavior with
our friend the Patriarch. But that's a purely personal matter, and
shouldn't be allowed to cloud the diplomatic issue, which is above
personalities. And on that level I haven't encountered anything to
justify your apprehensions."

"The evidence of pattern? You mentioned it once before. The suicides?"

"The suicides were just suicides. I hinted at the matter and one of
them--I think it was Vikhranov--came right out with the explanation
without even being asked. It seems that the suicide cases among the
castaways were people who had some strong tie or reason for going back,
but still couldn't bear to leave Tolstoia once they got here. A simple
case of a conflict they were unable to resolve."

Heidekopfer got up and began to pace the floor, his brow set in a
frown. "Well, anyway," he said at last, "I might as well tell you that
I'm doing something practical about what you call my apprehensions.
After what developed at the picnic I radioed South Bergenland for a
helio. It will be here tonight, and I'm going back on it and taking Ann
with me. I advise you to come, too."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rosa Lanzerotti trilled a little laugh. "I don't think you'll find Ann
particularly grateful--or particularly willing," she said.

"Then by God I'll get help to make her willing!" cried Heidekopfer.

"Wait--" began Lanzerotti, but he was already out the door and almost
running down the corridor toward the apartment occupied by the
Samsonovs. Not knowing what the custom was, he knocked. A female voice
said, "Enter, in the name of the Master."

Mrs. Samsonov, looking as mysterious as ever, was sitting beside a
table with one of the girls who served at table, sewing on something.
"Good evening, Robert Murrayovich," she said. "Pitrim Androvich is out
this evening."

"As a matter of fact, it was you that I wanted to see," he said, "and
alone, if possible."

She glanced at the girl. "Is it your will to leave at the desire of the
little father?"

"The will of one is the will of all," said the girl, picked up her
sewing and went through a door at the back as Mrs. Samsonov faced
Heidekopfer. "What is it you desire to say, Robert Murrayovich?"

He hesitated. "Well, it's rather difficult, and I hope you won't be
offended--but--"

"In happy Tolstoia we do not take offense at what Nature gives us to
do."

"That's very nice of you. Well, it's about Miss Starnes--Ann
Samuelovna."

"She is very beautiful."

"That's just the trouble, I'm afraid. Did you know that she went to
look at flowers with your husband this afternoon?"

Anna Gulyevna's smile became a trifle more Mona Lisa than before, if
possible. "Yes, I knew it."

"And it doesn't worry you? Not even a little bit?"

"Not even a little bit, Robert Murrayovich."

"And he told her she should have children."

"It is good to have children." She smiled again at his hopeless
expression and laid down her sewing. "Listen, Robert Murrayovich, and
I will tell you how it is in happy Tolstoia. We have a law that a
husband and wife must remain faithful to each other. So that if Pitrim
Androvich looks at flowers with Ann Samuelovna, or even touches and
kisses her, it is because he thinks she is beautiful, like a part of
nature. Even though he is Patriarch he cannot break the law."

"But damn it!" said Heidekopfer. "I want to marry her myself!"

"Is it her will also? The will of one must become the will of all."

Heidekopfer experienced a violent sense of frustration. "Look here,"
he said, "I know you have means of influencing the way people think
about things. Can't you give me a little help with Ann?"

She lifted one hand and placed it beside her cheek. "She has achieved
the brotherhood of man, and I think she will want to become a citizen
of happy Tolstoia," she said. "If she does, the only way would be for
the Supreme Soviet to pass a law that she must marry you. Thus the will
of all becomes the will of one."

"But I don't want to stay in Tolstoia," said Heidekopfer, "I--"

Outside the door someone shouted, "In the name of the Master, may I
enter?"

"Enter," called Anna Gulyevna, and the door opened on Kazetzky. His
expression looked even more morose than usual. He said to Heidekopfer,
"I am glad you are here, little father. Good evening Anna Gulyevna--I
am the bearer of unhappy news."

"Unhappiness cannot remain long in happy Tolstoia," said Anna Gulyevna
gravely. "What is your news, Pyotr Ilyich?"

"Pitrim Androvich is very desirous of the foreign woman. He has called
a session of the Supreme Soviet for tonight, and will propose a law
that a man may have two wives, so that he can marry her."

Heidekopfer saw Anna Gulyevna's hands tense in her lap and the secret
smile dropped from her face. "That is most unhappy news, Pyotr Ilyich,"
she said.

"See here," said Heidekopfer, "can't something be done about this?" He
looked at Kazetzky. "You're a member of the Supreme Soviet, aren't you?
Can't you oppose the bill on the ground that it's--concisionary, or
something?"

       *       *       *       *       *

But they shook their heads, looking at him gloomily. "Well, by God, I'm
going to do something about it if nobody else does," he said, getting
to his feet. "Where's this meeting being held?"

Kazetzky did not move. "It is even worse than you think, little
father. Pitrim Androvich will propose a law of suicide against you."

Anna Gulyevna gasped and put one hand to her mouth. Heidekopfer looked
bewildered. "What have I done and what's a law of suicide?" he asked.

"You are a resistant," said Kazetzky. "It was the will of all that you
fall in love with the girl Sonia Grigorevna whom you took to look at
flowers this afternoon, but it did not become your will. Therefore, it
is evident that you are resistant to the will of all. We always pass
laws of suicide against resistants, especially if they are foreigners.
It is the only way of maintaining the brotherhood of man."

"I see," said Heidekopfer, and he did, with a sudden horrible clarity.
So this was what had happened to the castaways! And how many others had
been wiped out in these self-inflicted purges since they established
their "brotherhood of man?" The hackles on his neck were rising, but he
managed a laugh. "Well, if I'm a resistant, I guess I'm not going to
worry about it too much."

Anna Gulyevna's face looked a trifle pale, even in the candlelight.
"You do not know the strength of a law of suicide," she said. "It makes
use of the death-wish, and those against whom it is passed cannot sleep
until they sleep forever."

"Do you mean I have to take it lying down? I'm damned if I do!" He took
four quick steps across the room, tore open the door and started down
the hall. Kazetzky's voice behind him said, "A moment, little father."

Heidekopfer faced him. "Well?"

"What are you going to do, little father?"

"See Lanzerotti--Vincent Guidovich. He's the ambassador of the Council,
and he isn't going to let anything like this go on."

"It will do you no good. This has happened before. He has accepted the
will of all, and will not believe you until the law has been passed.
When the two new laws are passed and the foreign woman has married
Pitrim Androvich, then you will commit suicide, and he will say, 'Ah,
that is the reason he did it.'"

"You're so full of bright ideas you just slay me," said Heidekopfer
with a wry twist to his mouth. "But I don't think you'd be batting them
up unless you had something in mind. Come on, out with it."

Kazetzky said, "If you could leave Tolstoia and return where you came
from before the law was passed, I do not think you would be in danger.
There would be too many people around you with confused thoughts who do
not belong to the brotherhood of man."

"And leave Ann behind to marry that old goat? No, I think not."

Kazetzky said, "Then there is only one thing to do. That is to go to
the session of the Supreme Soviet and try to prevent the laws being
passed. You are a resistant, and it is possible you could make their
thinking confused enough."

Heidekopfer glanced at him sharply. "You want me to, don't you? What's
your interest in this?"

"I am a supporter of Alexei Ivanovich Dubrassov. He is a traditionalist
who does not believe happy Tolstoia should be extended as Pitrim
Androvich wishes. If the law of suicide is not passed and you report
against giving us the islands, there will be a law of suicide against
Pitrim Androvich, and Alexei Ivanovich will be Patriarch."

Heidekopfer laughed shortly. "I thought there'd be some
chestnut-pulling connected with this somewhere. How come that the will
of all the others to follow the Patriarch's plan didn't affect you and
Dubrassov, too?"

The man's face went sullen. "You have no right to ask me questions like
that," he said.

Heidekopfer reflected that the development of their mental integration
had not made the Tolstoians any the less Russian. "All right, let's
go," he said. "Is it far?"

"At the schoolhouse. I have a droshky which I took to bring Anna
Gulyevna the news. It is not good to let bad news delay until the will
of one becomes a resistance."

"Okay. Wait just a minute, will you, while I get my pocket radio. I've
got some friends coming who may be some help, and I might want to get
in touch with them."




                                  VII


The lights behind the windows of the schoolhouse made vague islands in
the dark pennons of mist. Kazetzky got out and tied the horse to the
hitching-rail as Heidekopfer dismounted. "Go in, little father," he
said. "I will stay outside as long as I can." He was breathing hard, as
though trying with all his strength to resist some kind of compulsion.

Heidekopfer checked the sets of his radio, walked to the door and flung
it open. The fifteen or twenty men and women of the Supreme Soviet were
seated in chairs scattered in no particular order around the classroom,
with Samsonov at the teacher's desk, his back to Heidekopfer as the
latter entered. But the thing that made the reporter catch his breath
as the faces turned toward him like flowers toward the sun was the
sight of Ann Starnes, sitting just to the right of the Patriarch. Her
glance was coldly unfriendly.

For a second or two the tableau held. Then Samsonov turned round and
rose majestically to his feet. "The session of the Supreme Soviet is
secret," he said, and glared.

Heidekopfer once more felt the headache sensation at the back of his
neck, accompanied by an almost overwhelming impulse to get out of
there, to escape from that place before something dreadful happened, a
strange malaise, which he could not name possessed him. He staggered
back a step, then caught Ann's eye fixed on him with the same quality
as the rest, and was abruptly seized by another impulse, even more
overwhelming.

The second one struck him as a better idea, anyway, so he yielded to
it. He took three rapid steps toward the Patriarch Samsonov and let him
have one fetched up from the region of the belt-line.

It took the big man flush on the button, and down he went, thrashing
and kicking, as the room burst into a turmoil of shouts and chairs
knocked to the floor. Ann screamed. Heidekopfer grabbed her by the arm.
"You're coming with me whether you like it or not," he said in English,
and turned to face the group menacingly. But nobody seemed inclined to
offer him any opposition, and the thought flashed through his head that
they probably had a law against physical violence, too.

Samsonov had hauled himself to his feet with the aid of the desk. There
was a little trickle of blood from his mouth and his eyes were deadly.
The last thing Heidekopfer heard him say as he pulled the girl through
the door was, "There will be a law--"

Kazetzky had disappeared. Ann was limp as he bundled her into the
droshky, and didn't say anything until he had unhitched the horse,
climbed to the driver's seat, and with a combination of yells and
jerking on the reins, urged it into plodding motion. Then she said,
"Oh, Bob!"

He didn't turn around. "Yeah. What is it?"

"I was hating you. I knew they were going to pass a law that you should
commit suicide, and I was going to help them."

"Nice of you."

"When you hit him, something happened. It was like coming out of a dark
room into the sunlight.... Bob!"

"What is it?"

"I think I need a keeper. I'll marry you when we get back--if we ever
do." She began to cry.

This time he swung round on the seat. "Listen, angel," he said, "I want
you just enough to take you up on that, whether it's on a rebound or
not. But are you sure you're out from under the control that big lug
seemed to have snapped on you?"

"I--I--think so. But I don't know how long it will last. Get me out of
here, quick!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Overhead, a beam of light stabbed down through the crowding mist, just
picking out the corner of Samsonov's house a few hundred yards beyond
them, and there was a sound of ghostly wings. The beam shifted, ran
along a line of trees, and then satisfied itself with an open field.

"The helio," said Heidekopfer. "I radioed for one on the chance I could
get you away." He tried to urge the horse to greater speed as lights
came on in the building and the aircraft swung in for a landing in a
pool of its own illumination. Abruptly, the headache sensation took
him in the back of the neck again, stronger than ever, accompanied by
an intolerable sense of depression, and the night was suddenly full
of horrors ahead. It was not worth the trouble. He felt the reins
loosening in his hands. "Ann!" he cried, "Ann ..." and blacked out.

He came to to the sound of purring motors and struggled to sit up.
Someone said, "Give him this," and a cup of coffee was held against his
lips. He looked up into Ann's face.

"Still feel the same way you did in the droshky?" was the first thing
he said as he drank.

"Sssh. Yes," she said, and he looked round to see the Lanzerottis
smiling at him across the cabin of the helio. He struggled upright on
the transom. "That was a narrow one," he said. "I think they must have
passed the law of suicide against me. But I can't figure out how it
would affect me so. They said I was a resistant."

Lanzerotti said, "Thought can operate without physical presence. The
Christian Scientists and Theosophists on earth knew that years ago. And
this was a rather massive impact."

Heidekopfer shook his head. "Give me a little more of that stuff, will
you? I'm still a little groggy. What I can't figure out is how you two
got away and came along."

"We were talking about that," said Lanzerotti. "Rosa and I were just
getting ready for bed, when it suddenly struck us that everything you
had said was true, and the Tolstoians had us under control and were
showing us, in effect, a Potemkin village. When you knocked Samsonov
out, even for only a moment, the control snapped on us as it did on
Ann. Then he got so interested in passing the law of suicide against
you that he didn't have time to rebuild his fences. So we got away, but
we had to leave most of the records."

Heidekopfer drank again. "I don't suppose it makes much difference,
though," he said. "Our verbal report ought to be enough to keep the
Council from giving them the Wrightley Islands. My God, if that thing
got loose! With what they've developed they'd be able to take over
every inch of the three worlds, little by little, and turn them into
more Tolstoias."

"No," said Lanzerotti emphatically.

"No what?"

"My recommendation will be that we grant them the Wrightley Islands and
any other bits of uninhabited territory they happen to want--but only
for so long as Samsonov remains Patriarch."

Heidekopfer's mouth fell open. "What!" he exclaimed aghast, "Has he
still got you under?"

Lanzerotti's smile was bland. "Not at all. They've attained the goal of
the totalitarian state. They've got everybody thinking alike. Remember,
Dubrassov couldn't warn us, even when he wanted to, although he
couldn't bring himself to go along with Samsonov's expansionist policy.
Samsonov showed us Potemkin villages, all right. But don't you see what
all this crazy set-up adds up to? These people can't change. They've
lost their adaptability.

"The system has to be rigid, because the first time anyone expresses
an individual idea, the whole totalitarian structure will collapse.
They're inbred and interlocked, and Samsonov has complete control of
their thinking and their behavior--for the time being, at least. But
as soon as the Tolstoians expand to the Wrightley Islands, or anywhere
else, they'll be facing conditions they've never before encountered.
They'll have to learn to think for themselves again--"

"--And as soon as they start to think new thoughts, Samsonov's power
will evaporate. He'll lose his grip, just like he did on me!" finished
Heidekopfer, reaching for Ann's hand.

"You see," concluded Lanzerotti, "Dubrassov was the really dangerous
one. He didn't have new ideas, and whether they were castaways or not,
more people would have been drawn in on him."

The little group was quiet, contemplative, then they smiled knowingly
at one another.

"Let's get home," said Ann, "and make our--my last picture."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POTEMKIN VILLAGE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
