The Project Gutenberg eBook of Time out for redheads, by Miriam Allen
deFord

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Time out for redheads

Author: Miriam Allen deFord

Illustrator: Kelly Freas

Release Date: October 29, 2022 [eBook #69257]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TIME OUT FOR REDHEADS ***





                         Time Out for Redheads

                        By MIRIAM ALLEN deFORD

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Startling Stories Summer 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


His name was Mikel Skot. He was thirty-four, five-feet-ten and lean,
with decent features and all his hair and quite nice brown eyes.
But somehow he always seemed to give the impression of being of
indeterminate age, and slightly dusty. He lived alone, he gravitated
between his job and his lodgings, and since the age of fourteen he had
never known a girl well enough to call her by her first name.

For twelve years, ever since 2827, he had sold tickets at one of
the windows of Time Travel Tours, Unlimited. If raises hadn't been
automatic, he would never have had one, though he was punctual,
faithful, honest, quick and accurate. Even the other ticket-sellers
still called him Citizen Skot.

He had never budged from his cozy era--even though, as an employee, he
was entitled to take any tour he wished, on his semi-annual vacation,
at no cost to him beyond the planetary sales tax--nor had he ever left
his native city, let alone his native planet. He was too shy even to
realize he was lonely.

This morning there was the usual rush. Staggered vacations meant that
any time of the year was the busy season for TTT. Skillfully Mikel
Skot arranged tours and calculated rates.

"Two weeks in Rome, 45 B.C.? That will be creds 850, Citizen. You get
your costume and equipment in Room 104, right off the Teleport. Yes,
I'm sure they'll have a Latin language-transformer you can hire."
"England in 1600, one month, reservation in the name of Chas Rusl. Yes,
I have it right here. That will be creds 500, please." "You mean you
want a ticket for here in Los, for a week six years ago in February?
Why, yes, it's a little unusual, but--oh, certainly, I understand--a
second honeymoon. Congrats, Citizen--not many couples stay together
that long! Just a min, while I look up the rate for two."

The queue seemed endless, and crowds of travelers who already had
their tickets were pushing their way through the doors back of the
ticket-office to the Teleport itself, together with the friends who
were seeing them off. If Mikel had had a moment to spare, which he
hadn't, he might have wondered, as so often before, at the numbers of
people everybody except himself seemed to know.

The morning wore on, and he was beginning to think longingly of 13:30
o'clock, when his lunchtime relief would arrive and he could sit in a
quiet corner of an Autocaf and watch the tridimens screen for the day's
news while he ate his favorite vitatabs and smoked a healthcig.

Then everything happened all at once.

The girl standing at his ticket-window was a redhead. Her eyes were
green, with little dancing amber lights in them, and she smiled at him
as if he were the kind of man girls do smile at, and not ineffectual
Mikel Skot.

"Can you tell me," she began, in a warm, slightly husky voice.

Then she screamed loudly and collapsed.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were shouts and jostling and milling around, and somebody leaned
over the counter and abruptly thrust something into his hand. He stood
there dazed, grabbing the object, whatever it was. Then he leaned over
the counter. The girl was lying there, very still. On one side of her a
pool of blood was slowly forming on the floor.

The guards were coming from all directions, trying to get some kind of
quiet and order into the excited throng. Mikel looked down at the thing
in his hand.

It was a knife, a steel knife with a wooden handle. It was obviously an
antique, and of great value. And it was smeared with fresh blood.

Mikel Skot lost his head entirely. Never before had he, or anyone he
had ever heard of, been involved even remotely in any kind of violence.
He never even took in historical crime plays. The redheaded girl was
dead, and he held in his hand the knife that had killed her. And she
had been the first girl who had smiled at him for years.

He wanted out--now!

He reached behind him and grabbed a ticket at random, not even looking
to see what date it was. He punched it hastily for a week. Nobody was
looking at him; everybody was still yelling at everybody else, and the
sweating guards were trying to line people up and blocking the doors
so that they could not get away. Mikel ran to the corridor back of the
counters, which the ticket-sellers used, and saw that the company door
to the Teleport was open. Out there, what with parties singing "Happy
Timetrav to You," or noisily greeting homecomers, and the loudspeaker
directing passengers to their proper stations, and the roar of the
take-offs and returnjets, nobody seemed to have noticed that anything
was wrong in the ticket-office.

Mikel glanced around once to be sure that nobody was watching him, and
slipped through the door. He was still holding the knife. Automatically
he thrust it into his belt-pouch.

It was typical of him that after twelve years not one of the Teleport
attendants knew him by sight. He thrust his ticket at the nearest one.
The man glanced at it (three other travelers were trying to get his
attention at the same time) and said "Platform Eight." Mikel hurried
there.

Before he reached it he remembered something. He had punched the ticket
for duration, but not for place. Well, that was all right. If it had
no place-punch, it would mean Los itself. He was escaping into his own
city.

The attendant at Eight took his ticket, then peered at him dubiously.

"You haven't clothes for the period, Citizen. Go to Room 104 and--"

"It doesn't matter," Mikel interrupted him. He was in a fever to be
gone. "I'm--it's a research project," he added in a sudden inspiration
which didn't make sense even to himself, but which the attendant, used
to strange statements from travelers, accepted without comment. He
sealed the timeporter on to Mikel's wrist, set it for return in a week,
and helped him into the telechamber.

There was a swift moment when his head felt empty and his stomach
heaved: and Mikel Skot found himself sitting on an iron bench in a park.

He had a week now to think things over. He was in Los--he had to be,
his ticket said so.

But when?

He looked about him. It must be the middle of the day, the same time it
had been before, and the park was full of people on their lunch-hour.
They were dressed weirdly--the men and half the women wore tight
cylindrical garments, one on each leg. The upper part of their bodies
were covered with various kinds of brightly-colored cloth, though
occasionally he saw a woman who wore only a breast-holder above her
bare midriff! Mikel, in his belted tunic, huddled in a corner of his
bench, fearful of notice. But nobody paid any attention to him, and
once a man passed who had on a tunic too--a long white one, over bare
feet and under long hair and a flowing beard. Apparently in this period
people dressed as they pleased--at least in Los.

The city itself, what part of it he could see from his vantage-point,
was stranger than the people. There were no moving sidewalks, and
no weather-canopies over the streets--though perhaps these had only
been removed for the dry season. The buildings looked shrunken and
tiny--hardly one seemed to be more than thirty or forty stories high.
Archaic buses and motor-cars, apparently powered by some non-atomic
fuel, plied the actual streets, instead of being confined to subways.
The skies were almost empty of planes, and those he saw were incredibly
clumsy and slow. There was obviously no freeway for helicopters.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was self-evident that he was in some year of the remote past, though
just which, he had no idea. He wished he had taken time to glance at
the ticket before he handed it in. He wished he had studied history
komikbooks, or given more than a cursory glance at the telescreen
propinforms of TTT. There was something to be said, after all, for the
General Educationalists, cranks as they were.

Certainly this was not his Los--his giant city stretching from Mex
to Sanfran without a break. This was a little place of probably not
much more than two million inhabitants. Well, here he was for a week,
and he'd better find out how he was going to eat and sleep. Properly
equipped time travelers had money of the right period, but the cred
checks in his pouch would do him no good now. What did he have on him
that could be exchanged for board and lodging?

Only one object of undoubted value. The knife.

Surreptitiously and with distaste he took it out and looked at it. The
blood had dried on it and doubtless left traces on the lining of his
pouch. It was probably covered with the fingerprints of the murderer as
well as with his own. But it was all he had.

In the middle of the park there was a fountain, with a pool around it.
Casually Mikel Skot strolled over to it and sat down on the ledge.
When he was sure nobody was looking he dipped the knife in the water
and scrubbed it dry on the inner hem of his tunic. There would still
be traces of blood which any chemist could find, of course; but nobody
here would be examining it for that. Since anyone could see that it was
of immense value, he would have to account for possession of it. He
could say it was an heirloom.

Putting it back in his pouch he approached a fat man on a bench nearby.

"Where is the nearest history museum, please, Citizen?" he asked
politely.

The man looked up. He had been scanning a large piece of paper which
Mikel, with a thrill, recognized from one of his few visits to the
Museum of Antiquities. It was a thing called a newspaper, which had
antedated the tridimens telescreen. He remembered that the specimens he
had seen had borne dates at the top, and if he could read the archaic
printing he could find out what year it was. But the man folded it up
and thrust it under his arms as he answered.

"History museum?" he echoed. "Gosh, bud, I don't know. I'm a stranger
here myself--just got in from Kansas yesterday. You a foreigner?" he
asked with frank curiosity. "You got a funny accent. And you sure look
funny."

A foreigner--that was a good one! But Mikel had no time to waste.
He murmured "Excuse," and left. The man stared after him and made a
gesture which Mikel did not understand--describing a circle in the air
near his forehead.

Mikel walked to the edge of the little park and looked about him.
Across the street was a store with newspapers in racks in front of
it. He could go over there and see the dates. But what did it really
matter? With his ignorance of all but the haziest generalities of
history--he thought that once, thousands of years ago, Los had belonged
to the Spaniards, and after that there was some kind of war that was
maybe called the American Revolution or the Civil War or the World War,
he was not sure which--it wouldn't do him much good to know whether he
was in, say, 1820 or 1960 or 2080. Besides, he was afraid to cross that
street full of clumsy vehicles, and with neither an overpass nor an
underpass. Nowhere could he see anything that resembled a museum.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farther down on the same side of the street on which he stood, he saw
something that looked faintly promising. He walked down to it, and
found a window full of odd-looking primitive objects, the nature of
some of which he could not guess. But there were knives among them,
and a sign said, in ancient spelling, "Jewelry Bought and Sold." On an
impulse he walked in.

A man in another queer garment--some kind of cloth upper, with a white
linen thing beneath it and a ribbon tied around his neck--looked up
without surprise at Mikel's literally untimely garb, and said: "Yes,
sir?"

Mikel drew out the knife.

"Very valuable," he said. "An heirloom. How much will you give me?"

The man shrank back, not as if he were afraid of the knife, but as if
he were suddenly afraid of Mikel.

"You kidding me?" he asked. "Or is this a stick-up?"

Mikel was not sure what the words meant, so he merely shook his head.

"Then are you nuts? There's nothing valuable about that thing. It's
just an ordinary kitchen knife."

"Not valuable?" Mikel's face fell. "But look--wooden handle, steel
blade."

"So what? Every knife has a wooden handle and a steel blade."

"You will not give me money for it?"

"Of course not. We don't buy junk."

There was no use arguing. One age's antique is another age's junk.
Mikel sighed and departed quietly. How was he to get food and shelter
for a week?

He went back to the park and sat down again on a bench. He put the
knife back in his pouch.

This was what came of panicking for the first time in his humdrum life.
A sudden image of the redheaded girl came before his mind--her green
eyes and her smile. That girl--she was so pretty--and she had smiled at
him, whom girls never noticed. And then she had been killed. Now that
it was too late, he wished he had stayed, whatever might have happened
to him. He wanted to help, to avenge her; he wanted to be home again.

His stomach reminded him sharply that he had had no lunch. He had
never heard how long a man could go without eating. Could he even live
through the week?

He sat there disconsolately, his eyes fixed on the ground. On his wrist
was sealed the little gadget that was his only means of ever seeing
2839 again.

Somebody came and sat down beside him. Deep in thought, he did not even
glance up. A voice said, "Can you tell me what time it is? My watch is
broken and there's no clock around here."

"Watch"--that meant "to be alert." "Clock"--that was an ancient
time-measuring device, he thought. The only way Mikel knew to tell the
time was to glance at the ceiling of any room, or if he were outdoors
to tune in on his miniature tridimens gadget, attached to his belt. He
dialed it now, but there was no response. Of course not--it wouldn't
work across perhaps a thousand years.

"I'm sorry," he answered. "I can't."

He turned as he spoke. He jumped violently.

The speaker was a girl. She had red hair and green eyes. Otherwise
there was no resemblance, though she too was pretty. But red hair and
green eyes seemed to be haunting him.

"What's that thing on your left wrist, then?" asked the girl spunkily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mikel reddened. Rule Five of the booklets he handed out with the
tickets to all travelers leaped into his mind: "Remember, you cannot
change the course of history. To avoid confusion and difficulty, avoid
revealing to any person you meet in other time-periods the true nature
of your presence there."

He broke the rule, and was sorry at once.

"It's a timeporter," he said, "set for my return home."

The girl laughed.

"That's a good one. I thought I'd heard everything since I came to this
crazy place. What are you, an Arab, dressed in that tablecloth?"

"I was born right here in Los," Mikel announced with dignity. "I've
always lived here."

"So they grow them crazy here right from the start! Then where's your
home you're 'set' to return to?"

"Here in Los."

The girl stood up hastily, a look of alarm on her face.

"Oh, please," Mikel cried, "don't go. I can explain. Perhaps you can
help me."

She sat down again dubiously.

"Well, I'm a sucker for a good story," she said. "Shoot."

"I--I wouldn't shoot. I have no weapon."

That wasn't true--he did have a weapon: the knife. But he could hardly
mention that. Anyway, the girl only laughed again.

"Wisecracks, yet," she said unintelligibly. "Well, what's the story?"

"I am from this place, but I am not from your time," Mikel began
laboriously; he was utterly unaccustomed to social conversation with a
woman. "I am from--with me it is 2839."

"What in the--look, what are you advertising? Some science fiction
magazine?"

"I don't understand that word--adver--what is it? Please believe me. I
shouldn't tell you, I'm breaking a rule. But it is true."

"Go on." She fixed him with a skeptical glance.

"I was--I am a ticket-seller for Time Travel Tours. This morning--I
mean what was to me this morning--a customer was killed at my window."

He plunged ahead. She listened in silence, a peculiar expression in her
eyes.

"So you see," he concluded, "I am here for a week. But then I go
back--the timeporter will see to that. I _want_ to go--I'm sorry I ran
away. But I'm sure the police will say I did it, because of the knife."

"Let's see it."

He brought it out.

"Why, that's just an ordinary kitchen carving knife," she said, just
as the man in the store had done. "I suppose you _would_ call it an
antique in--what was it?--2839. I still say you're haywire--or else
this is some new racket I don't get."

"I don't understand."

"Okay, I guess you wouldn't--in 2839. The language would change plenty
in 886 years." Once more her laugh rang out. "I'll say you keep it up
fine--that funny half-foreign way you pronounce your words. But I'll
play along, and pretend this is all on the up-and-up. Even so, it's
haywire--crazy. Because the dumbest cop in the world wouldn't suspect
you of the murder. Anybody'd know the murderer just got rid of the
knife the quickest way he could. Gosh, you were behind your window,
weren't you, and she was in front of it? Where was her stab wound?"

"Wait--it's hard for me to understand. 'Cop'--is that slang for police?
And the blood"--he shuddered--"came from her side. Either someone in
front or someone behind her could have done it."

"But they'll find out right away, won't they, that you didn't know the
girl? They'll find out who she was, and they'll grill everybody she
knew, to see who had a reason for wanting her out of the way.... Listen
to me! I'm as big a nut as you are. I'm talking just as if the whole
thing really happened."

"It did happen," Mikel assured her earnestly. "No, I didn't know her.
I don't know any girls at all. I'm--I'm not attractive to women."

"Why, you're not so bad," said the girl kindly. "I think you're kind
of cute--or would be, if you weren't rigged up in those outlandish
clothes," she paused, then continued, "Well, if you can prove you
didn't know her, what have you got to worry about?"

"The knife. And that I lost my head and ran."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl nodded. "Leave the knife here, then. Or would that change the
course of history?" She smiled. "Of course, what you ought to have done
was hand it right over. Then if it was such a great antique they'd not
only have the guy's fingerprints but they'd also find out who knew her
that worked in a museum or had a chance to steal it from one. That's
elementary homicide procedure."

"You see," said Mikel, "this also you won't believe. But our police are
not conditioned to take care of killings. This is the first time in
my whole life that I have ever even heard of one, except by accident.
The psychologists wouldn't allow anyone to grow up who had murderous
tendencies that couldn't be sublimated."

"They let that one slip by them, didn't they? And do you mean that in
the great scientific future they tell us about, the police won't know
as much about handling a homicide case as any hick constable knows
today? Who're you trying to kid?"

"We do not have crime. The police are to guard traffic and to take up
for reconditioning anybody who doesn't obey the civil rules. I don't
know much history, but I know there once were wars, and then there
were experts in war. Now--in my time--we have no wars, so there are no
experts. In the same way we have no experts in crime."

"Then what would they do to you, if they did convict you of this murder
you didn't commit?"

"I don't know. There is no penalty for murder because there have been
no murders for so long. This will be a world affair; the police will
refer it to the Supreme Council, and they will decide what to do. I
suppose they will have me euthanized as an atavistic deviant. That's
why I lost my head. It was a totally new experience and I haven't been
conditioned to new experiences. But even if they don't convict me,
they'll punish me for running away. They'll demote me, perhaps all the
way back to where I started twelve years ago."

"It doesn't sound like much of a brave new world to me," said the girl
in a disparaging tone. "What's your name--or do you just have numbers?"

"My name is Mikel Skot."

"Michael Scott--well, that sounds like a regular name, anyway. Mine's
Betty French, by the way."

"Many grats to you, Citizen French. You have given me good advice. I
know now it is my duty to take the knife back with me, and give it to
the police. I shall tell them also about looking for somebody in a
museum, as you suggested. But there will be no fingerprints--I washed
the knife in that fountain, when I hoped to sell it. I forgot it _must_
exist in my era, or the murder could not have occurred.

"But that is not my big problem now. I have no money of your time. How
shall I live until I can go home?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Betty French seemed to stiffen. She looked at him disgustedly. "I get
it now," she said. "I might have known. This is just a new way of
panhandling. I certainly admire it--it's a work of art. Well, I got my
money's worth. I'll pay for it."

She opened her handbag, drew out a dollar bill, and laid it on Mikel's
knee. He gazed at it curiously, but made no attempt to pick it up.

"Is that your kind of money?" he asked. "What do I do in exchange for
it?"

"Oh, let's drop it," she sighed wearily. "My lunch-hour's up, anyway.
Take it--it'll buy you a hamburger and coffee, and then you can tell
your tale to the next comer and maybe get enough for a bed in a
flophouse. Brother, you must have told it plenty, to get it all down so
pat. It's a wonder I've missed you before--or are you just starting to
work this neighborhood?"

She snapped her bag shut and stood up.

"Please--I don't understand--why are you so angry?"

At the desperation in his voice she turned and stopped.

"Look--I really have to get back to the office. This _is_ an act, isn't
it? Come clean--aren't you panhandling?"

"What does 'panhandling' mean?"

"Oh, I give up! I guess you're just looney, after all. All right, Mike,
let's call it a day. You keep that buck, and now you just go to the
nearest police station and tell them your story. They'll take you over
to the psychiatric ward of the county hospital and you can get free
board and lodging there."

Mikel turned pale and shivered.

"Oh, no," he breathed. "I'm not insane. If you don't believe me, no one
else will. And the hospital will euthanize me."

"Is that what they do to crazy people in--in your time?"

"Of course. And they punish the psychologist who didn't detect the
tendency and have the person euthanized in childhood."

"Suppose I give you my word they won't do that to you here and now?
They'll just observe you for a few days and then they'll have you
committed to a state hospital."

"You are quite positive? If I can be sure of being alive a week from
now, no matter where I am, when the timeporter checks I'll go back
home."

"Even if you're in a padded cell?"

"It won't matter where."

"Well, then, your problem's solved, isn't it? I'll show you how to get
to the station."

"I must eat first. I'm very hungry. And what were those things you said
if I should get--hamburger and coffee? They are--original foods? Our
food is all synthetic."

"You don't have to keep this up with me any more. There's a quick lunch
place." She pointed.

"And they won't mind in this Autocaf that I'm not dressed like the
others?"

"In this burg? They wouldn't notice if you wandered around in a
loincloth. Now I've _got_ to go. This is the wackiest thing that ever
happened to me, whatever it really means. Well, good luck, Mike!"

"Grats to you, Citizen French, from deep in my pineal. Oh, wait just
one min more please!"

"What is it now?"

"You have given me so much to tell our police. But won't they wonder
_why_ this man killed the girl?"

"They can ask him when they catch them, can't they? But it's perfectly
obvious. She was buying a ticket, wasn't she?"

"Yes, certainly."

"Well, that meant she was going away--leaving him, doesn't it? So he
was in love with her--maybe she was his wife--and he couldn't take it.
Maybe she was going to some other guy--how do I know? He found out she
was deserting him, so he got hold of the knife, and followed her."

"But I don't see why." Mikel was utterly bewildered. "She was a free
agent, like anybody else. He couldn't object to her leaving if she no
longer loved him--he didn't _own_ her. That doesn't make sense. If I
tell one of our police _that_ theory, she will surely think I'm insane."

"She?"

"All our police are women, of course. Women are naturally gifted at
keeping order."

"You tell that to our cops, and they'll surely get you tucked away in a
nice hospital, but fast. Well, why else _would_ he kill her?"

"I don't know. That's why I asked you--you know so much more about such
things, in your barb--in your time."

"Your policewoman will have to figure it out for herself. So long,
Mike." She shook her head, smiling. "Will I have a tale to tell the
crowd--if they don't decide I've gone nuts myself! Good-by!"

"Goobie, Citizen, and grats again."

Still smiling, she hurried down the path out of the park.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he could see her no longer, Mikel stood up and began hesitantly to
walk toward the restaurant she had pointed out. Fortunately, it was on
the same side of the street, not far past the shop where he tried to
sell the knife.

This was not going to be plez, not at all plez. Despite what this Beti
French had told him, he was nervous about putting himself in the hands
of either the police or psychologist of this barbarous era. But there
didn't seem to be anything else he could do. His conversation with the
redheaded girl had shown him clearly what kind of reception he would
meet from anyone else he ventured to approach.

First he must eat--he was ravenous. He dared not ask for any food
except the two things the girl had mentioned, whatever they were like.
Presumably the money she had given him would be enough.

The restaurant had a long counter of some white substance, with stools
fixed before it. Only one man sat there eating, but behind it stood
another man dressed in white, with a white cap on his head. Mikel
perched himself on the nearest stool.

"Hamburger, coffee, please," he said, and laid Beti's money beside him
on the counter.

The other customer looked up and eyed him sharply, but the man behind
the counter merely yelled "One on a bun!" through a hole in the wall.
"Mustard?" he asked, "Onions? Cream?"

"No, Citizen. Hamburger, coffee," Mikel repeated, flustered.

"A joker!" the man grunted. "This town! You in the movies, bud?"

Mikel stared.

"He wants a burger without and coffee with," the other customer put in
suddenly. He picked up his dishes and slid down to the next stool. He
was a heavy-set, middle-aged man, dressed as the man in the store had
been--in dark cloth bifurcated leg-coverings and a dark, long-sleeved
upper garment over a light-colored under-garment, with a gaudy ribbon
around his neck.

"Okay, okay," said the man in white placatingly, and set down before
Mikel something on a plate and something else in a cup, both hot. Mikel
began sampling them gingerly with the unaccustomed implements. The
restaurant man took the money, put it in a box that rang a bell, and
laid down some small metal objects in its place. Then he disappeared
through a door behind the counter.

Mikel's neighbor waited until he had gone. Then in a low voice he said:

"Finish the food, Citizen Skot. Then we'll talk."

Mikel looked up, frozen. The stranger shot his left wrist out from the
sleeve. Sealed to it was a timeporter.

"From TTT executive, Citizen," he said briskly. "I didn't think I'd
find you quite so soon, but I knew it wouldn't be long, since you
didn't wait to get proper equipment for your journey. It is fort for
you that this is perhaps the only place in this era where you would not
have been taken up at sight for wandering around in unusual clothing."

"How--how did you know what period--"

"We only had to check the tickets, to see which was missing. Have you
the knife?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mikel brought it out dumbly and laid it on the counter. The man put it
in a pouch sewed into his lower garment.

"I didn't do it! I didn't!" Mikel cried despairingly. He had lost his
appetite completely.

"Sh! We don't want a fuss here. I am rechecking your timeporter,
Citizen Skot. We are going back immediately."

"I--I didn't even know the girl!" Mikel pleaded, remembering Beti
French's instructions.

"We shall see as to that, when we get home," said the TTT executive
grimly.

Then suddenly he burst out laughing. He laughed until he had to take a
small piece of white material from his upper garment and wipe his eyes.

"I meant to give you a good scare, to put some sense into you," he
gasped finally. "But I can't keep it up. Citizen Skot, you are a fool."

"I know that, Citizen," said Mikel humbly.

"The psychologists really conditioned you a bit too well. I am told
that you live for your work and have no recreation at all. You are as
ignorant of the world as a small child. Come, did you ever hear of a
murder in our time, anywhere, in all your life?"

"No. But I know such things occur."

"In the past, not in our time. How could there be a murder in our era?
In the old times, people killed one another for jealousy, for revenge,
for greed. Such incentives do not exist in the 29th century. The only
other possibility would be insanity, and the psychologists would never
allow that to proceed to such a point--the diseased person would be
euthanized at the very first symptoms."

"But the girl _was_ killed, right before my eyes."

"My poor man, you were a victim of your own ridiculously retired
existence. Anyone else would have guessed at once. It was planned that
way so as to get a good effect of a crowd in confusion--most of them
were extras. Of course all the arrangements had been made with us
beforehand, and the concealed telcams were focused away from any Time
Travel signs."

"Telecams?"

"World Theater was making a historical crime tridimens in modern
dress, Citizen Skot. The girl was an actress. The blood was faked.
They thought it would be more effective not to put an actor behind the
ticket-window, but to use a real ticket-seller without warning him,
just as part of the crowd wasn't warned. It worked beautifully--they
tell me your fright and horror showed up wonderfully well.

"They picked your window because they said they liked your looks--I
can't imagine why. That was their big mistake. Any other of our
ticket-sellers would have waited to see what happened next. You, you
dumble, fell into a panic and ran away. And I've had to leave my desk
in the middle of a busy aftern to go and fetch you. We couldn't let
you wander around here for a week without means of subsistence, and
thinking you were suspected of murder!"

"I suppose I'll be demoted now," Mikel said gloomily.

"That wouldn't be fair. This wasn't one of the known responsibilities
of your position. No, but I imagine you'll come in for a lot of
whiffing, to use a slang expression."

"Kidding--that's what they call it here, I think. Well, I'm used to
that."

"And Dafne Dart says she's wild to meet you."

"Dafne Dart? Who's she?" Mikel looked alarmed again.

"Your performance made a tremend impression on her. She told me to tell
you she thinks 'you're purely vlumpish.' She's the actress who played
the murder victim."

"That red-haired girl with the green eyes with flecks of amber in
them?" asked Mikel eagerly. "With the streely smile and the gorge
voice?"

"You seem to have noticed her," said the TTT executive dryly. "Yes,
that's the one. I thought you didn't go for women."

"But that's different!" Mikel Skot caroled. "Redheads with green
eyes--that's the one kind that crashes me and that I crash--I just
found it out today.

"Come on, Citizen, what are we waiting for? Let's Go!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TIME OUT FOR REDHEADS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
