The Project Gutenberg eBook of The disciplinary circuit, by Murray
Leinster

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The disciplinary circuit

Author: Murray Leinster

Release Date: November 30, 2022 [eBook #69448]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DISCIPLINARY
CIRCUIT ***





                       THE DISCIPLINARY CIRCUIT

                          By MURRAY LEINSTER

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Thrilling Wonder Stories Winter 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                               CHAPTER I

                          _Victim of Tyrants_


Kim Rendell stood by the propped-up "Starshine" in the transport hall
of the primary museum on Alphin III. He regarded a placard under
the space-ship with a grim and entirely mirthless amusement. He was
unshaven and hollow-cheeked. He was even ragged. He was a pariah
because he had tried to strike at the very foundation of civilization.
He stood beside the hundred-foot, tapering hull, his appearance marking
him as a blocked man. And he re-read the loan-placard within the
railing about the exhibit.

    Citizens, be grateful to Kim Rendell, who shares with you the
    pleasure of contemplating this heirloom.

    This is a space-ship, like those which for ten thousand years were
    the only means of travel between planets and solar systems. Even
    after matter-transmitters were devised, space-ships continued to be
    used for exploration for many years. Since exploration of the
    Galaxy has been completed and all useful planets colonized and
    equipped with matter-transmitters, space-ships are no longer in use.

    This very vessel, however, was used by Sten Rendell when the first
    human colonists came in it to Alphin III, bringing with them the
    matter-transmitter which enabled civilization to enter upon and
    occupy the planet on which you stand.

    This ship is private property, lent to the people of Alphin III by
   Kim Rendell, great-grandson of Sten Rendell.

Kim Rendell read it again. He was haggard and hungry. He had been
guilty of the most horrifying crime imaginable to a man of his time.
But the law would not, of course, allow him or any other man to be
coerced by any violence or threat to his personal liberty.

Freedom was the law on Alphin III, a wryly humorous law. No man could
be punished. No man could have any violence offered him. Theoretically,
the individual was free as men had never been free before in all of
human history. Despite Kim's crime, this space-ship still belonged to
him and it could not be taken from him.

Yet he was hungry, and he would remain hungry. He was shabby and he
would grow shabbier. This was the only roof on Alphin III which would
shelter him, and this solely because the law would not permit any man
to be excluded from his rightful possessions.

       *       *       *       *       *

A lector came up to him and bowed politely.

"Citizen," he said apologetically, "may I speak to you?"

"Why not?" asked Kim grimly. "I am not proud."

The lector said uncomfortably:

"I see that you are in difficulty. Your clothes are threadbare." Then
he added with unhappy courtesy, "You are a criminal, are you not?"

"I am blocked," said Kim in a hard voice. "I was advised by the Prime
Board to leave Alphin Three for my own benefit. I refused. They put on
the first block. Automatically, after that, the other blocks came on
one each day. I have not eaten for three days. I suppose you would call
me a criminal."

"I sympathize deeply," the lector answered unhappily. "I hope that soon
you will concede the wisdom of the advised action and be civilized
again. But may I ask how you entered the museum? The third block
prevents entrance to all places of study."

Kim pointed to the loan-card.

"I am Kim Rendell," he said drily. "The law does not allow me to be
prevented access to my own property. I insisted on my right to visit
this ship, and the Disciplinary Circuit for this building had to be
turned off at the door so I could enter." He shivered. "It is very cold
out-of-doors today, and I could not enter any other building."

The lector looked relieved.

"I am glad to know these things," he said gratefully. "Thank you."
He glanced at Kim with a sort of fluttered curiosity. "It is most
interesting to meet a criminal. What was your crime?"

Kim looked at him under scowling brows.

"I tried to nullify the Disciplinary Circuit."

The lector blinked at him, fascinated, then walked hastily away as if
frightened. Kim Rendell stooped under the railing and approached the
"Starshine."

The entrance-port was open, and a flush ladder led up to it. Kim,
hollow-cheeked and ragged and defiant, climbed the steps and entered.
The entry-port gave upon a vestibule which Kim knew from his
grandfather's tales to be an airlock. Kim's grandfather had once gone
off into space in the "Starshine" with his father. It was, possibly,
the last space-flight ever made.

For a hundred years, now, the ship had been a museum-piece, open to
public inspection. But parts had been sealed off as uninstructive. Kim
broke the seals. This was his property, but if he had not already been
a criminal under block, the breaking of the seals would have made him
one. At least, it would have had to be explained to a lector who, at
discretion, could accept the explanation or refer it to a second-degree
counsellor.

The counsellor might deplore the matter and dismiss it, or suggest
corrective self-discipline.

If the seal-breaker did not accept the suggestion the matter would go
to a social board whose suggestion, in turn, could be rejected. But
when it reached the Prime Board--and any matter from the breaking of
a seal to mass murder would go there if suggested self-discipline was
refused--there was no more nonsense.

Kim's case had reached the Prime Board instantly, and he had been
advised to leave Alphin III for his own good. His crime was monstrous,
but he had ironically refused exile.

Now he was under block. His psychogram had been placed in the
Disciplinary Circuit.

    Disciplinary Circuit: The principal instrument of government during
    the so-called Era of Perfection in the First Galaxy. In early ages,
    all the functions of government were performed by human beings in
    person. The Electric Chair (q.v) was possibly the first mechanical
    device to perform a governmental act, that of the execution of
    criminals.

    The Disciplinary Circuit was a device based upon the discovery of
    the psychographic patterns of human beings, which permitted the
    exact identification of any person passing through a neuronic field
    of the type IX2H.... A development which permitted the induction of
    alternative electric currents in any identified person, made the
    Disciplinary Circuit possible.... It was first used in prisons,
    permitting much less supervision of prisoners (See Prisons and
    Prisoners) with equal security.

    Later, because it allowed of an enormous reduction in the personnel
    of government, all citizens were psychographed. Circuits were set
    up in all cities of the First Galaxy. When a broadcast adaptation
    became possible, the system was complete. Every citizen was liable
    to discipline at any time.

    No offender could hide from government. Wherever he might be, he
    was subject to punishment focused upon him because of his completely
    individual psychographic pattern.... Worship of efficiency and
    the obvious reduction in taxes (See Taxes) at first obscured the
    possibilities of tyranny inherent in such a governmental system....

    [See (1) Era of Perfection, (2) Revolts, (3) Ades, (4) First Galaxy,
    Reconquest of. For typical developments of government based upon
    the Disciplinary Circuit, see articles on Sirius VIII, Algol II,
    Norten V and the almost unbelievable but authenticated history of
    government on Voorten II.]

    _Encyclopaedia of History, Vol. XXIV. Cosmopolis, 2nd Galaxy._

On the first day he was blocked from the customary complete outfit of
new garments, clean, sterile, and of his own choice. These garments
normally arrived by his bedside in the carrier which took away the old
ones to be converted back to raw material for the garment machines.

On the second day he could enter no place of public recreation. An
attempt to pass the door of any sport-field, theatre, or concert
stadium caused the Disciplinary Circuit to act. His body began to
tingle. He could turn back then. If he persisted, the tingling became
more severe. If he was obstinate, it became agony, which continued
until he turned back.

On the third day he found it impossible to enter any place of study or
labor. The fourth day blocked him from any place where food or drink
was served. On the fifth day his own quarters were barred to him.

After seven days the city and the planet would be barred. Anywhere
he went, his body would tingle, gently in the morning, more and more
strongly as the day wore on, until the torment became unbearable. Then
he would go to the matter-transmitter, name his chosen place of exile,
and walk off the planet which was Alphin III.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it happened that Kim was a matter-transmitter technician. It
happened that he knew that the Disciplinary Circuit was tied in to the
matter-transmitter, and blocked men were not sent to destinations of
their own choosing.

Blocked men automatically went to Ades. And they did not come back.
Ever.

Behind the sealed-off parts of the space-ship, Kim searched hungrily
and worked desperately, not for food, of course. He had determined to
attempt the impossible. He had accomplished only the first step toward
it when he felt an infinitesimal tingling all over his body. He stood
rigid for a second, and then smiled grimly. He closed the casing of the
catalyzer he had examined and worked on.

"Just in time," he said. "The merciless brutes!"

He moved from the catalyzer. A moment later he heard footsteps. Someone
came up the flush ladder and into the space-ship. Kim Rendell turned
his head. Then he bent over the fuel-register, which amazingly showed
the tanks to be almost one-twelfth full of fuel, and stood motionless.

The footsteps moved here and there. Presently they came cautiously to
the engine-room. Kim did not stir. A man made an indescribable sound of
satisfaction. Kim, not moving even his eyes, saw that it was the lector
who had spoken to him outside the ship. He did not address Kim now.
With a quite extraordinary air of someone about to pick up an inanimate
object, the lector laid hands upon Kim to lift him off his feet.

"Citizen!" Kim said severely. "What does this mean?"

The lector gasped. He fell back. His mouth dropped open and his face
went white.

"I--I thought you were paralyzed."

"I do not care what you thought," Kim said. "It is against the law for
any citizen to lay violent hands upon another."

By an effort the lector babbler regained his self-control.

"You--you.... The Circuit failed to work!"

"You reported that I had entered this ship," Kim said drily. "There is
some uneasiness about what I do, because of my crime. So the Circuit
was applied to paralyze me, and you were ordered to bring me quietly to
the matter-transmitter. As you observe, it is not practical. Go back
and report it."

The lector said something incoherent, turned and fled. Kim followed him
leisurely to the entry-port. He turned the hand-power wheels which put
a barrier across the entrance. He went back to his examination of the
ship. The first part of the impossible had been achieved, but there was
much more, too much more, which must be done. He worked feverishly.

His grandfather had told him many tales of the "Starshine." She
had made voyages of as long as two years in emptiness, at full
acceleration, during which she had covered four hundred light-years
of space, had purified her air, and fed her crew. Her tanks could
hold fuel for six years' drive at full acceleration and her
food-synthesizers, primitive as they were by modern standards, could
yet produce some four hundred foodstuffs from the carbon, hydrogen,
nitrogen, and traces of other elements into which almost any organic
raw material could be resolved.

She was, in fact, one of the last and most useful space-ships ever
constructed at the last space-ship yard in existence. She was almost
certainly the last ever to be used. But she was only a museum-piece
now and her switches were opened and her control-cables severed lest
visitors to the museum injure her. But Kim's grandfather had lectured
him at great length upon her qualities. The old gentleman had had an
elderly man's distaste for modern perfectionism.

Kim threw switches here and there. He spliced cables wherever he found
them cut. He was hungry and he was gaunt, and he worked with a bitter
anticipation of failure. He had been in the museum for almost an hour,
and in the ship for half of that, when voices called politely through
the barrier-grille.

"Citizen Kim Rendell, may we enter?"

He made sure it was safe, then opened the way.

"Enter and welcome, citizens," he said ironically, in the prescribed
formula. But his hands were clenched and he was all ready to fight for
his life.




                              CHAPTER II

                          _Break for Freedom_


Slowly the Prime Board of Alphin III filed up the flush ladder and
into the cabin of the "Starshine." There was Malby, who looked like an
elderly sheep. There was Ponter, who rather resembled an immature frog.
There was Shimlo, who did not look like anything but an advanced case
of benevolent imbecility, and Burt, who at least looked intelligent and
whom Kim Rendell hated with a corrosive hatred.

"Greeting, citizen," Malby said. Even his voice had a bleating quality.
"Despite your crime, we have broken all precedent to come and reason
with you. You are not mad, yet you act like a madman."

Kim grinned savagely at him.

"Come, now! I found a material that changes a man's psychogram, so he's
immune to the Disciplinary Circuit. I was immune to discipline. So you
four had me seized and my little amulet taken away from me. And then
you sealed up every other bit of that material on the planet. Not so?"

"Naturally," Burt said pleasantly. "The Disciplinary Circuit is
the basis of civilization nowadays. All discipline and hence all
civilization would cease if the Circuit were nullified. Naturally, you
must be disposed of."

"But carefully, so if there is anyone who shares my secret, he'll
be betrayed by trying to help me!" said Kim. "And quietly, too, so
those amiable sheep my fellow-citizens won't suspect there's anything
wrong. They don't realize that they're slaves. They don't know of
your pleasure-palaces on the other side of the planet. They don't
realize that, when you take a fancy to a woman and she's blocked in her
quarters until she's hysterical with fear and loneliness, you advise
her to take psychological treatments which make her a submissive inmate
of the harems you keep there. They don't know what happens to men you
put under block for being too inquisitive about those women and who
enter the matter-transmitter for exile."

[Illustration: On the other side of the world, the loveliest women of
Alphin III were lolling away their lives in luxurious palaces.]

Burt looked mildly inquiring. "What does happen to them?"

"Ades!" Kim said furiously. "They go to the transmitter and name their
chosen place of exile, and the transmitter-clerk dutifully pushes the
proper buttons, but the Circuit takes over. They go to Ades! And no man
has ever come back."

There was a sudden tension in the air. Burt looked at his fellows.
Shimlo was the picture of benevolent indignation, but his eyes were
ugly. Ponter opened his mouth and closed it absurdly, looking more than
ever like a frog.

"This is monstrous!" Malby bleated. "This is monstrous!"

Burt held up his hand.

"How did you get this strange idea?" he asked.

"I'm a matter-transmitter technician, fourth grade," Kim said coldly.
"I worked on the transmitter when it gave trouble. I found the
Disciplinary Circuit tie-in. I traced it. So I knew there was something
wrong about all personal freedom on Alphin III and I started to look
for more things wrong. I found them. I started to do something about
them. Then I got caught."

Burt nodded.

"So!" he said thoughtfully. "We underestimated you, Kim Rendell. It
is much pleasanter to rule Alphin Three as beloved citizens than as
admitted tyrants. There are times when we have to protect ourselves.
Naturally, we would rather not show our hands. It is clear that you
must be sent into exile. Frankly, to Ades--whatever it may be like
there. Apparently you did not have any friends."

"I dared not trust any of the sheep you rule," Kim said angrily. "But
I did know there was more hafnium on this ship. I didn't dare come
at first, or you'd have guessed. But after I'd starved a bit and was
convincingly cold, I risked the venture. You guessed my intention
too late. I can defy you again, even if you did take away my first
protection from the Circuit. You know that?"

Burt nodded again.

"Of course," he admitted. "Yet we do not want a scandal. We will make
a bargain within limits. You must be disposed of, but we will promise
that you can go wherever you choose via the matter-transmitter."

"Your word's no good," Kim snapped.

"You will starve," Burt said mildly. "Of course you can seal yourself
in the ship, but we will have lectors, special lectors, waiting for you
when you come out again."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kim scowled. "Yes?" he said. "I've been here half an hour. The ship's
circuits were cut, but I've put the communicator back in working order.
I can broadcast over the entire planet, telling the truth. I won't
destroy your power, but I'll make your slaves begin to realize what
they are. Sooner or later, one of them will kill you."

Malby bleated. It was not necessarily panic, but there are some minds
to whom public admiration is necessary. Such persons will commit any
crime to get admiration which they crave with a passionate desire. Burt
held up his hand again.

"But why tell us?" he asked pleasantly. "Why didn't you simply
broadcast what you've learned? Possibly it was because you wished to
bargain with us first? You have terms?"

Kim ground his teeth.

"That's right," he said. "There is a girl, Dona Brett. She was to marry
me, but one of you saw her, I think you, Burt. She is now blocked in
her quarters to grow hysterical and terrified. It was on account of her
that I acted too soon, and got caught. I want her here."

Burt considered without perceptible emotion.

"She is quite pretty, but there are others," he said in his detached
way. "If we send her, you will not broadcast?"

"I'll kill her and myself," Kim said. "It's apparently the only service
I can do her. Get out, now. It will take your best technician at least
forty minutes to make a scrambler which will keep me from broadcasting.
I'll give you twenty minutes to get her to me. I'll talk to all the
planet if she isn't here."

Burt shrugged.

"Almost, I overestimated you," he said mildly. "I thought you had an
actual plan. Very well. She will come. But if I were you, I would not
delay my suicide."

Burt's eyes gleamed for an instant. Then he went out, followed by
the others. Kim worked the controls which sealed the ship. He got
feverishly to work again.

From time to time he stared desperately out of the vision-ports, and
then resumed his labors. His task seemingly was an impossible one. The
"Starshine" had been made into a mere museum exhibit. It was complete,
but Kim's knowledge was inadequate and his time far too short.

Eighteen minutes passed before he saw Dona. She stood quietly beside
the railing outside the space-ship, alone and quite pale. He opened
the outer airlock door. She came up. He closed the outer door and
opened the inner. She faced him. She was deathly white. As she saw him,
hollow-cheeked and bitter, she managed to smile.

"My poor Kim! What did they do to you?"

"Blocked me!" Kim cried. "Took away my hafnium gadget and put me on
the Circuit. They locked up every scrap of hafnium on the planet
behind an all-citizen block. They just didn't know that it was used in
space-ships in the fuel-catalyzers. I've found enough to make the two
of us safe, though. Here!" He thrust a scrap of metal into her hand.
"Hold it tightly. It has to touch your skin."

She caught her breath.

"I was blocked in my quarters, and I couldn't come out," she told him
unsteadily. "I was going crazy with terror, because you'd told me what
it might mean. I tried--so hard--to break through. But flesh and blood
can't face the Circuit. I hadn't any reason to hope that you'd be able
to do anything, but I did hope."

"I told them I'd kill both of us," he said fiercely. "Maybe I shall!
But if I can only find the right cable, we'll both be doomed."

Suddenly, every muscle in his body went rigid and a screaming torment
filled him. It lasted for part of a second. His face went gray. He
wetted his lips.

"Burt!" he said thickly. "He had a psychometer under his robe. They
came here, and he knew my psychogram was changed by the hafnium I'd
found, so while they talked he stole the new pattern. It's taken them
this long to get it ready for the Circuit. Now they're putting it in."

With a sudden, convulsive jerk, he went rigid once more. His muscles
stood out in great knots. He was paralyzed, with every nerve and sinew
in his body tensed to tetanic rigor. Agony filled him with an exquisite
torment. It was the Disciplinary Circuit. It was those waves broadcast,
focused upon him at full power. They would have found him anywhere upon
the planet. And their torment was unspeakable.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a stricken silence in the[1] face as white as his own. She
sobbed suddenly.

[Footnote 1: Transcriber's Note: missing line in original text.]

"Kim!" she cried desperately. "I know you can hear me! Listen! They
must have me on the Circuit too, only what you gave me has thrown it
off. They expect to hold us paralyzed while they cut in with torches
and take us. But they mustn't! So I'm going to give you the thing
you gave me. If it changed my pattern, it will change yours again,
to something they can't guess at." She sobbed again. "Please, Kim!
Don't give it back. Go ahead and do what you planned, whatever it is.
And if you don't win out, please kill me before you give up. Please.
I don't want to be conditioned to do whatever they want in their
pleasure-palaces."

She took the tiny sliver of metal in her shaking fingers. She pushed
aside the flesh of his hand to put it in his grip. Courageously she
released it.

The agonized paralysis left Kim Rendell. But now Dona was a pitiful
figure of agony.

Kim groaned. Rage filled him. His anguish and fury was so terrible
that he would have destroyed the whole planet, had he been able. But
he could not permit her gift, which she had given at the price of such
torment, to go without reward. He must struggle on to save them both,
even though now he had no hope.

He sprang to the control-board. He stabbed at buttons almost at
random, hoping for a response. He'd tried to get the ship into some
sort of operating condition, but now there was no time. Frenziedly
he attempted to find some combination of controls which would make
something, anything happen. He slipped the second bit of hafnium
into his mouth to have both hands free. In desperation he ripped the
control-board panel loose. He saw clipped wires everywhere behind it.
Seizing the dangling ends, he struck them fiercely together. A lurid
blue spark leaped. He cried out in triumph, and the morsel of metal
Dona had sacrificed to him dropped from his lips.

[Illustration: In desperation Kim sprang to the control-board, seized a
couple of loose wires and struck the ends together.]

His muscles contorted and agony filled him.

There was a roaring noise. The "Starshine" bucked violently. There
were crashes and there was a feeling of intolerable weight which he
could feel, despite his agony. The ship reeled crazily. It smashed
through a wall. It battered into a roof. It spun like a mad thing and
went skyward tail-first with Kim Rendell in frozen, helpless torment,
holding two cables together with muscles utterly beyond his control.

It went up toward empty space, in which no other vessel was navigating
anywhere.




                              CHAPTER III

                         _Rays of Destruction_


Eventually the "Starshine," alone in space as no other space-ship had
been alone in twenty thousand years, behaved like a sentient thing. At
first, of course, her actions were frenzied, almost insane, as if the
Disciplinary Circuit waves which made Dona a statue of agony and kept
Kim frozen with contorted muscles could affect the space-ship too.

Wildly the little vessel went upward through air which screamed as it
parted for her passage. She yawed and swayed and ludicrously plunged
backwards. The screaming of the air rose to a shriek, and then to a
high thin whistle, and then ceased altogether. Finally she was free of
the air of Alphin III.

After this she really made speed, backing away from the planet. Her
meteor-detectors had been turned on in one of Kim's random splicings,
and when current reached them they reported a monstrous obstruction in
her path and shunted in the meteor-repelling beams. The obstacle was
the planet itself, and the beams tried to push it away. Naturally, they
pushed the ship itself away, out into the huge chasm of interplanetary
space.

It kept up for a long time, too, because Kim was paralyzed by the
broadcast waves. They were kept focused upon him by the psychographic
locator. So long as those waves of the Disciplinary Circuit came
up through the ionosphere, Kim's spasmodically contracted muscles
kept together the two cables which had started everything. But the
"Starshine" backed away at four gravities acceleration, faster and ever
faster, and ordinary psychographic locators are not designed for use
beyond planetary distances. After all, there had been no human beings
in space for generations.

Ultimately the tormenting radio-beam lessened from sheer distance. At
last the influence broke off suddenly and Kim's hands on the leads
dropped away. The beam fumbled back to contact, and wavered away again,
and presently was only a tingling sensation probing for a target the
locators could no longer keep lined up.

Then the "Starshine" seemed to lose her frenzy and become merely a
derelict. She sped on, giving no sign of life for a time. Then her
vision-ports glowed abruptly. Kim Rendell, working desperately against
time and with the chill of outer space creeping into the ship's
unpowered hull, had found a severed cable which supplied light and heat.

An hour later still, the ship steadied in her motion. He had traced
down the gyros' power-lead and set them to work.

Two hours later yet the "Starshine" paused in her flight. Her long,
pointed nose turned about. A new element of motion entered the picture
she made. She changed course.

At last, as if having her drive finally in operation gave her something
of purposefulness, the slim space-ship ceased to look frenzied or
frowsy or bemused, and swam through space with a serene competence,
like something very much alive and knowing exactly what she was about.

She came to rest upon the almost but not quite airless bulk of Alphin
II some thirty hours after her escape from Alphin III. Kim was
desperately hungry. But for the lesser gravity of the smaller inner
planet, which was responsible for its thinned-out atmosphere, he might
have staggered as he walked. Certainly a normal space-suit would have
been a heavy burden for a man who had starved for days. Dona, also,
looked pale and worn-out when she took from him the things he brought
back through the airlock.

They put the great masses of spongy, woody stuff in the synthesizer.
It was organic matter. Some of it, perhaps, could have been consumed as
food in its original state. But the synthesizer received it, and hummed
and buzzed quietly to itself, and presently the man and woman ate.
The synthesizer was not the equivalent of those magnificently complex
food-machines which in public dining-halls provide almost every dish
the gourmets have ever invented from raw materials. But it did make a
palatable meal from the tasteless vegetation of the small planet.

Kim said quietly, when they had finished eating, "Now we'll find out
for certain what Burt intends to do about us." He grimaced. "He's
dangerously intelligent. He underestimated me before. He may consider
us dead, or he may overestimate us. I think he'll play it safe. I
would, in his place."

"What does that mean?" Dona asked wistfully. "We will be able to
go to some other planet, won't we, Kim? As if we'd gone in the
matter-transmitter in a perfectly normal fashion? Simply to take up
residence on another world?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kim shook his head. "I'm beginning to doubt it," he said slowly. "The
discovery that with a bit of hafnium a man can change his psychographic
pattern is high explosive. If the Disciplinary Circuit can't pick him
out as an individual, any man can defy any government which depends on
the Circuit. Which means that no government is safe. I've got to be
gotten rid of for the sake of government everywhere in the galaxy."

"But they can't touch us here," said Dona. "We're safe now."

Kim shook his head.

"No. I was too hungry to think, before. We're not safe. I've got to
work like the devil. Do you remember your Galactic History? Remember
what the Disciplinary Circuit was built up to? Remember the Last War?
It's not only the space-ships which went into museums. I'm suddenly
scared stiff."

He stood up and abruptly began to put on the space-suit again. His face
had become haggard.

"In the Last War there were no battles, only massacres," he said curtly
as he snapped buckles. "There was no victory. They used a beam which
was a stepped-up version of the Disciplinary Circuit. They called it
a fighting-beam, then, and they thought they could fight with it. But
they couldn't. It simply made war impossible. So ultimately they
hooded over the projectors of the fighting-beams, and most of them
probably fell to rust. But there are some in the museums. If Burt and
the others want to play safe, they'll haul those projectors out of the
museum and hook them up to find and kill us. And there's no question
but that they can do it."

He stepped into the airlock and closed the door, still fumbling with
the last adjustments to his space-suit.

Dona was puzzled by his gloomy forebodings. She heard the outer door
open. As she stood there bewildered, she heard him bringing more raw
food-stuff to the airlock with a feverish haste. He made two trips,
three, and four.

She found herself screaming shrilly because of an agony already past.

It had been a bare flash of pain. It was gone in the fraction of a
second, in the fraction of a millisecond. But it was such pain! It was
the anguish of the Disciplinary Circuit a thousand times multiplied.
It was such torment as the ancients tried vainly to picture as the lot
of damned souls in hell. Had it lasted, any living creature would have
died of sheer suffering.

But it flashed into being, and was gone, and Dona had cried out in a
strangled voice. She was filled with a horrible weakness from the one
instant of anguish, and she felt stark panic lest it come again.

The outer airlock door slammed shut. The inner opened. Kim came
staggering within. He did not strip off the space-suit. He ran clumsily
toward the now-repaired control-panel, his face contorted.

"Lie down flat!" he shouted as he opened his face-plate. "I'm taking
off."

The "Starshine" roared from the almost-barren world which was an
inferior planet of the sun Alphin, not worth colonization by men.
Acceleration built up and built up and built up to the very limit of
what the human body could stand.

After twenty minutes, it dropped from four gravities to one.

"Dona!" Kim called hoarsely.

She answered faintly.

"They've got the ancient projectors hooked up," he said as hoarsely
as before. "They're searching for us. We were so far away that the
beam flashed past. It won't record finding us for minutes, as it'll
take time for the response to get back. That's what will save us, but
they're bound to touch us occasionally until we get out of range."

The "Starshine" swung about in space. The brutal acceleration began
again, at an angle to the former line of motion.

Ten minutes later there was another moment of intolerable pain. Every
nerve in their bodies jumped in a tetanic convulsion. Had it continued,
their muscles would have torn loose from their bones and their hearts
would have burst from the violence of the fearful contraction. The
"Starshine" would have gone on senselessly as a speeding coffin. But
again the searing torment lasted for only the fraction of a second.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back on Alphin III, great projectors swept across the sky. They were
ancient devices, those projectors. They were quaint, even primitive
in appearance. But a thousand years before they had been the final
word in armament. They represented an attack against which there was
no defense. A defense which could not be breached. Those machines had
ended wars.

They poured forth tight beams of the same wave-frequencies and forms
of which the Disciplinary Circuit was a more ancient development
still. But where the Circuit was an exquisitely sensitive device for
the exquisitely graduated torment of individuals, these beams were
murderers of men. They were not tuned to the psychographic patterns of
single persons, but coarsely, in irresistible strength, to all living
matter containing given amino-chain molecules. In short, to all men.

And they had made the Last War the last. There had been one battle in
that war. It had taken place near Canis Major, where there had been
forty thousand warships of space lined up in hostile array. The two
fleets were almost equally matched in numbers, and both possessed the
fighting beams. They hurtled toward each other, the beams stabbing out
ahead. They interpenetrated each other and went on, blindly.

It was a hundred years before the last of the runaway derelicts
blundered to destruction or was picked up by other space-ships which
then still roved the space-ways. Because there was no defense against
the fighting-beams, which were aimed by electronic devices, a ship did
not cease to fight when its crew was dead. And every crew had died
when a fighting-beam lingered briefly on their ship. There was not
one single survivor of the Battle of Canis Major. The fleets plunged
at each other, and every living thing in both fleets had perished
instantly. Thereafter the empty ships fought on as robots against all
other ships. So there were no more wars.

For two hundred years after that battle, the planets of the galaxy
continued to mount their projectors and keep their detector-screens
out. But war had defeated itself. There could be no victories, but only
joint suicides. There could be no conquests, because even a depopulated
planet's projectors would still destroy all life in any approaching
space-ship for as many years as the projectors were powered for. But in
time, more especially after matter-transmitters had made space-craft
useless, they were forgotten. All but those which went into museums for
the instruction of the young.

These resuscitated weapons were now at work to find and kill Kim
and Dona. In a sense it was like trying to kill flies with a
sixteen-inch gun. The difficulties of aiming were extreme. To set up a
detector-field and neutralize it would take time and skill which were
not available.

So the beams swept through great arcs, with operators watching for
signs of contact. It was long minutes after the first contact before
the instruments on the projectors recorded it, because the news could
only go back at the speed of light. Then the projectors had to retrace
their path, and the "Starshine" had moved. The beams had to fumble
blindly for the fugitives, and they told of each touch, but only after
it occurred. And Kim struggled to make his course unpredictable.

In ten hours the beam struck four times only, because Kim changed
course and acceleration so fiercely and so frequently that a contact
could only be a matter of chance.

Then for a long time there was no touch at all. In two days Alphin, the
sun, had dwindled until it was merely the brightest of the stars, with
a barely perceptible disk. On the third day the beam found them yet
again, and Dona burst into hysterical sobs. But it was not really bad,
this time. There is a limit to the distance to which a tight beam can
be held together in space, by technicians who have not space-experience
and instinctive know-how.

Within hours after this fifth contact, Kim Rendell found the last key
break in the control-cables of the ship, and was able to throw on the
overdrive, by which the "Starshine" fled from Alphin at two hundred
times the speed of light. Then, of course, they were safe. Even had the
beam of agony been trained directly upon the ship, it could not have
overtaken them.

But Dona was a bundle of shrinking nerves when it was over, and Kim
raged as he looked at her scared eyes.

"I know," she said unsteadily, when he had her in the control-room to
look at the cosmos as it appeared at faster-than-light speed. "I know
I'm silly, Kim. It can't hurt us any more. We're going to another solar
system entirely. They won't know anything about us. We're all right.
Quite all right. But I'm just all in little pieces."

       *       *       *       *       *

With somber brow, Kim stared at the vision-plates about him. The
universe as seen at two hundred light-speeds was not a reassuring
sight. All stars behind had vanished. All those on either hand were
dimmed to near-invisibility. Ahead, where the very nose of the
space-ship pointed, there were specks of light in a recognizable
star-pattern, but the colors and the magnitudes were incredible.

"We're heading now for Cetis Alpha," Kim said slowly, after a
long time. "It's the next nearest solar system. Our fuel-tanks
are one-twelfth full. We have power to travel a distance of fifty
light-years, no more, and it would take us three months to cover that.
Cetis Alpha is seven light-years away, or it was."

"We're going to settle on one of the planets there?" Dona asked
hopefully. "What are they like, Kim?"

"You might look them up in the Pilot," Kim said, rather glumly. "There
are six inhabited ones."

"You sound worried," she said. "What is it?"

"I'm wondering," Kim admitted. "If Burt and the Prime Board should
send word ahead of us by matter-transmitter, to these six planets and
all the other inhabited planets within fifty or a hundred light-years,
it would be awkward for us. Transmission by matter-transmitter is
instantaneous, and it wouldn't take too long for the governments on
the Cetis Alpha planets to set up detectors and remount the projectors
which could kill us. Burt would call us very dangerous criminals. He'd
say we were so dangerous we had better be killed before we land." He
paused, and added, "He's right."

"I don't see why they should do anything so cruel."

"We've struck at the foundation of government," Kim said savagely. "On
Alphin Three there's a pretense that all men are free, and we know
it's a lie. But on other planets they don't even pretend. On Loré
Four they have a king. On Markab Two the citizens wear collars of
metal--slave-collars--and members of the aristocracy have the right to
murder social inferiors at pleasure. On Andrometa Nine the Disciplinary
Circuit, and so the government, is in the hands of a blood-thirsty
lunatic. The Circuit backs all governments alike, the supposedly free
and the frankly despotic governments impartially. We're a danger to all
of them. Even a decent government, if there is one, would dread having
its citizens able to defy the Circuit. Yet in ten words I can tell how
to nullify the one instrument on which all government is based. Once
that knowledge gets loose, nothing can suppress it."

Dona sighed.

"I was hoping we could go some place where we would be safe," she said.
"Isn't there any such place?"

Kim's laugh was bitter.

"I wonder if there's any place where we can be free," he said. "I
planned big, Dona, but it didn't work out. There wasn't another man on
Alphin Three who wanted to be free as much as I did. I'd about decided
that just the two of us would put on protectors and journey from one
planet to another in search of freedom. But then Burt saw you, and you
were locked up so you'd go frantic with fear and loneliness. Later
they'd have given you a psychological conditioning to cure you of
terror, sent you away to Burt's pleasure-palace."

"Why didn't you take me away before Burt saw me?" she asked. "Why did
you wait?"

Kim groaned. "Because I wasn't ready. When I realized the danger, I
tried to get you, and I was caught. They found out what I had and
everything became hopeless. They put me on block to see if anyone would
try to befriend me, but I hadn't any friends. I didn't know anyone
else who wouldn't have been frightened if I'd told him he was a slave.
I threatened the Prime Board with a broadcast, but I'm afraid nobody
would have believed me."

"It all happened because of me," Dona said. "Forget what I said about
wanting to be safe, Kim. I don't care any more, not if I'm with you."

Kim scowled at the weird pattern of strangely-colored stars upon the
vision-plate.

"We're using a lot of our fuel in trying for Cetis Alpha's planets. I'd
like to--well--have a marriage ceremony."

Despite her anxiety, Dona burst out laughing.

"It's about time, you big lug!" she cried. "I was beginning to lose
hope."

Kim laughed too. "All right. I'll see if it can be managed. But if
warnings have been sent ahead of us, marriage may be difficult."




                              CHAPTER IV

                          _Outcasts of Space_


Like a silver arrow, the "Starshine" continued to bore on through a
weird, synthetic universe, two hundred times faster than light. In the
space-ship Kim worked angrily, making desperate attempts to devise
a method of nullifying the non-individualized fighting-beams with
which--now that he was in free space in a space-ship--any attempt to
land upon an inhabited planet might be frustrated.

In the end he constructed two small wristlets, one for himself and
one for Dona to wear. If tuned waves of the Circuit struck them, the
wristlets might nullify them. But if the fighting-beams struck, that
would be another story.

Twelve days after turning on the overdrive, which by changing the
constants of space about the space-ship, made two hundred light-speeds
possible, Kim turned it off. He had previously assured that Dona
was wearing the little gadget he had built. As he snapped off the
overdrive field, the look of the universe changed with a startling
suddenness. Stars leaped into being on every side, amazingly bright
and astoundingly vari-colored. Cetis Alpha loomed almost dead ahead, a
glaring globe of fire with enormous streamers streaming out on every
side.

There were planets, too. As the "Starshine" jogged on at a normal
interplanetary--rather than interstellar--speed, Dona focused the
electron telescope upon the nearest. It was a great, round disk, with
polar ice-caps and extraordinarily interconnected seas, so that there
were innumerable small continents distributed everywhere. Green
vegetation showed, and patches of clouds, and when Dona turned the
magnification up to it's very peak, they were certain that they saw the
pattern of a magnificent metropolis.

She looked at it hungrily. Kim regarded it steadily. They did not speak
for a long time.

"It would be nice there," Dona said longingly, at last. "Do you think
we can land, Kim?"

"We're going to try," he told her.

But they didn't. They were forty million miles away when a sudden
overwhelming anguish smote them both. All the universe ceased to be....

       *       *       *       *       *

Six weeks later, Kim Rendell eased the "Starshine" to a landing on
the solitary satellite of the red dwarf sun Phanis. It was about four
thousand miles in diameter. Its atmosphere was about one-fourth the
density needed to support human life. Such vegetation as it possessed
was stunted and lichenous. The terrain was tumbled and upheaved, with
raw rock showing in great masses which had apparently solidified in a
condition of frenzied turmoil. It had been examined and dismissed as
useless for human colonization many centuries since. That was why Kim
and Dona could land upon it.

They had spent half their store of fuel in the desperate effort to find
a planet on which they could land.

Their attempt to approach Cetis Alpha VI had been the exact type of
all their fruitless efforts. They came in for a landing, and while yet
millions of miles out, recently reinstalled detector-screens searched
them out. Newly stepped-up long distance psychographic finders had
identified the "Starshine" as containing living human beings. Then
projectors, taken out of museums, had hurled at them the deadly
pain-beams which had made war futile a thousand years before. They
might have died within one second, from the bursting of their hearts
and the convulsive rupture of every muscular anchorage to every bone,
except for one thing.

Kim's contrived wristlets had saved them. The wristlets, plus a relay
on a set of controls to throw the "Starshine" into overdrive travel
through space. The wristlets contained a morsel of hafnium, so that any
previous psychographic record of them as individuals would no longer
check with the psychogram a search-beam would encounter. But also,
on the first instant of convulsive contraction of muscles beneath the
wristlets, they emitted a frantic, tiny signal. That signal kicked over
the control-relay. The "Starshine" flung itself into overdrive escape,
faster than light, faster than the pain-beams could follow.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had suffered, of course. Horribly. But the pain-beams could not
play upon them for more than the tenth of a millisecond before the
"Starshine" vanished into faster-than-light escape. They had tried each
of the six planets of Cetis Alpha. They had gone rather desperately to
Cetis Gamma, with four inhabited planets, and Sorene, with three. Then
the inroads on their scant fuel-supply and their dwindling store of
vegetation from Alphin II made them accept defeat. The massed volumes
of the Galactic Pilot for this sector, age-yellowed, brittle volumes,
now had told them of vegetation on the useless planet of the dwarf star
Phanis. They came to it. Kim was stunned and bitter. And they landed.

After the ship had settled down in a weird valley with fantastic
overhanging cliffs and a frozen small waterfall nearby, the two of them
went outside. They wore space-suits, of course, because of the extreme
thinness of the air.

"I suppose we can call this home, now," Kim said bitterly.

It was night. The sky was cloudless, and all the stars of the galaxy
looked down upon them as they stood in the biting cold. His voice went
by space-phone to the helmet of Dona, by his side.

"I guess I can stand it if you can, Kim," she said quietly.

"We've got fuel for six weeks' drive," he said ironically. "That means
we can go to any place within twenty-five light-years. We've tried
every solar system in that range. They're all warned against us. They
all had their projectors in operation. We couldn't land. And we'd have
starved unless we got to some new material for the synthesizer. This
was the only place we could land on. So we have to stand it, if we
stand anything."

Dona was silent for a little while.

"We've got each other, Kim," she said slowly.

"For a limited time," he said. "If we use our fuel only for heat and to
run the synthesizer for food, it will probably last several years. But
ultimately it will run out and we'll die."

"Are you sorry you threw away everything for me, Kim?" asked Dona. "I'm
not sorry I'm with you. I'd rather be with you for a little while and
then die. Certainly death is better than what I faced."

Kim made a furious gesture.

"It's recognized, everywhere, that the population of a planet has the
right to make all the laws of that planet. We are the population here.
We could be married by our own act. But suppose we had children? When
our fuel gives out they'd die with us. I think we'd go mad anticipating
that. We can't even have each other. We're imprisoned here as they used
to imprison criminals. For life. We can have no hope. There is nothing
we can work at. We can't even try to do anything."

He clenched his hands inside his space-gloves. Dona looked at him.

"Are you going to give up, Kim?"

"Give up what?" Then he said bitterly, "No, Dona. I'm going to find
some excuse for hoping. Some lie I can tell myself. But I'll know I'm
simply trying to deceive myself."

There was a long silence. Hopelessness. Futility.

"I've been thinking, Kim," Dona said softly, at last. "There are three
hundred million inhabited planets. There are trillions and quintillions
of people in the galaxy. If they knew about us, some of them at least
would want to help us. There are some, probably, who'd hope we could
help them. If we were to think of a new approach to the problem we
face, and reach the people who would want to help us, it might mean
eventual rescue."

"Signals travel at the speed of light," Kim said. "We'd be dead long
before even a tight-beam signal could reach another star-cluster, if
there were anybody there to receive or act on it. But there aren't any
space-ships except the 'Starshine.' It was the last ship used in the
galaxy."

"We've been regarding our predicament as if it were unique, as if
nobody else in the universe wanted to be free. As if there was only
one problem--ours! I heard a story once, Kim. It was about a man who
had to carry a certain particular grain of dust to another place. A
silly story, of course. But this was the top grain in a dust-pile. The
man tried to find something that would pick up the one grain of dust,
and something that would hold it quite safe. But he couldn't solve the
problem. There wasn't any box that would hold a single grain of dust.
He couldn't even pick up a solitary dust-grain. And how could he carry
it if he couldn't pick it up?"

"That's a fable," Kim said, harshly. "There's a moral?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dona smiled. "Yes," she said. "There is. He picked up the dust-grain.
With a shovel. He picked up a lot of others, too, but that didn't
matter. And he could find a box to hold a hundred thousand dust-grains,
when he couldn't find a box to hold one."

Kim was silent. Dona nodded and smiled at him.

"If you want a new way to think, how about thinking not just of us and
our problem, but the problem of all the people like us who have gone
into revolt?" she said. "How about all the people who've been sent to
Ades? How about all those who will go in years to come? I don't know
the answer, Kim, but it's another way to think. Since we've failed to
solve a little problem by itself, suppose we look at it as part of a
big one? It's a new approach, anyhow."

There was silence. The bright, many-colored stars overhead moved
perceptibly toward what would be called the west by age-old custom.
Weird shapes of frozen rock loomed above the space-ship, and the
starlight glimmered up on thin hoarfrost which settled everywhere upon
this small planet in the dark hours.

Kim stirred suddenly, and was still again. Dona continued to watch
him. She could not see his face, but it seemed to her that he stood
straighter, somehow. Then, suddenly, he spoke gruffly.

"Let's go back in the ship," he said. "Space-suits are admirable
inventions, Dona, but they have limitations. I can't kiss you through a
space-helmet."

He did not wait until they were out of the airlock, and she clung to
him. Then he grinned for the first time in many days.

"My dear," he said contentedly. "Not only are you the best-looking
female I ever saw, but you've got brains. Now watch me!"

"What are you going to do?" she asked breathlessly.

"Too much to waste time talking about it," he told her. "Want to
help? Look up Ades in the Pilot. I had completely forgotten I was a
matter-transmitter technician."

He kissed her again, exuberently, and strode for the "Starshine"
record-room, shedding the parts of his space-suit as he went. He pulled
down the microfilm reels covering the ship's construction and zestfully
set to work to review them, making notes and sketches from time to
time. The reels, of course, contained not only the complete working
drawings of the entire ship, showing every bolt and rivet, but also
every moving part in stereoscopic relationship to its fellows, with
full data so that no possible breakdown could take place without full
information being available for its repair.

Dona watched him furtively as she began the tedious task of hunting
through the Galactic Pilot of this sector, two-hundred-odd volumes, for
even a stray reference to the planet Ades.

Ultimately she did find Ades mentioned. Not in the bound volumes of the
Pilot, but in the microfilm abbreviated Galactic Directory. Ades rated
just three lines of type--its space-coördinates, the spectral type of
its sun, a climate-atmosphere symbol which indicated that three-fourths
of its surface experienced sub-Arctic conditions, and the memo:

"Its borderline habitability caused it to be chosen as a penal
colony at a very early date. Landing upon it is forbidden under all
circumstances. A patrol-ship is on guard."

The memorandum was quaint, now that no space-line had operated in five
centuries, no exploring ship in nearly two, and the Space Patrol itself
had been disbanded three hundred years since.

"Mmmm!" Kim said. "If we need it, not too bad. People could survive on
Ades. People probably have. And they won't be sheep, anyhow."

"How far away is it?" Dona asked uneasily. "We have enough fuel for
twenty-five light-years' travel, you said."

"Ades is just about halfway across the galaxy," he told her. "We
couldn't really get started there if our tanks were full. The only way
to reach it is by matter-transmitter."

But he did not look disheartened. Dona watched his face.

"It's ruled out. What did you hope from it, Kim?"

"A wedding," he said, and grinned. "But it isn't ruled out, Dona.
Nothing's ruled out, if an idea you gave me works. Your story about
the dust-grain hit my mind just right. I was trying to figure out how
to travel a hundred light-years on twenty-five light-years' fuel, even
though the Prime Board may have sent warnings three times that far. But
if you can't solve a little problem, make it a big one and tackle that.
That's what your story meant. It's a nice trick!"




                               CHAPTER V

                            _Super-Science_


Dona was greatly puzzled by what Kim had said. She stared at him,
wide-eyed, trying to figure out his meaning. For a moment or two he
made no attempt to explain. He just stood there, grinning at her.

"Listen, Dona," he said, finally. "Why did they stop making
space-ships?"

Dona smiled uncertainly, only because he was smiling.

"Matter-transmitters are quicker and space-ships aren't needed any
more."

"Right!" Kim said. "But why was the 'Starshine' used by my revered
great-grandfather to bring the first colonists to Alphin Three?"

"Because--well--because you have to have a receiver for a
matter-transmitter, and you have to carry it. Alphin Three was almost
the last planet in the galaxy to be colonized, wasn't it?"

"Yes. Why do you have to carry a receiver? No, don't bother. But do
answer this one. If two places are both too far to get to, what's the
difference?"

"Why, none."

"Oh, there's a lot!" he told her. "The next star-cluster is too far
away for the 'Starshine' with her present drive and fuel. To the next
galaxy is no farther. But when I stopped trying to think of ways to
stretch our fuel, and started trying to think of a way to get to the
next galaxy, I got it."

She stared.

"Are we going there to live?" she said submissively. But her eyes were
sparkling with mirth.

He kissed her exuberently.

"My dear, I wouldn't put anything past the two of us together. But let
me show you how it works."

He spread out the drawings he had made from the construction-records,
while she searched the Pilot. He expounded their meaning
enthusiastically and she listened and made admiring comments, but it
is rather doubtful if she really understood. She was too much occupied
with the happy knowledge that he was again confident and hopeful.

But the idea was not particularly complicated. Every fact was familiar
enough. Space-ships, in the old days, and the "Starshine," in this,
were able to exceed the speed of light by enclosing themselves in an
overdrive field, which was space so stressed that in it the velocity
of light was enormously increased. Therefore the inertia of matter,
its resistance to acceleration, or its mass, was reduced by the same
factor, y.

The kinetic energy of a moving space-ship, of course, had to remain
the same when an overdrive field was formed about it. Thus when its
inertia was decreased by the field, its velocity had to increase.
Mathematically, the relationship of mass to velocity with a given
quantity of kinetic energy is, for normal space, MV = E. In an
overdrive field, where the factor y enters, the equation is M/y, yV =
E. The value of y is such that speeds up to two hundred times that of
light result from a space-ship at normal interplanetary speed going
into an overdrive field.

A matter-transmitter field, as everyone knows now, simply raises the
value of y to infinity. The formula then becomes M/infinity, infinity
V = E. The mass is divided by infinity and the velocity multiplied by
infinity. The velocity, in a planet-to-planet transmitter, is always
directly toward the receiver to which the transmitter is tuned.

In theory, then, a man who enters such a transmitter passes through
empty space unprotected, but his exposure is so exceedingly
brief--across the whole First Galaxy transit was estimated to require
0.0001 second--that not one molecule of the air surrounding him has
time to escape into emptiness.

Thus the one device is simply an extension of the principle of
the other. A matter-transmitter is merely an enormously developed
overdrive-field generator with a tuning device attached. But until
this moment, apparently it had not happened that a matter-transmitter
technician was in a predicament where the only way out was to put those
facts together. Kim was such a technician, and on the "Starshine" he
had probably the only overdrive field generator of space-ship pattern
still in working order in the universe.

"All I've got to do is to add two stages of coupling and rewind the
exciter-secondary," he told her zestfully. "Doing it by hand may
take a week. Then the 'Starshine' will be a matter-transmitter which
will transmit itself! The toughest part of the whole job will be the
distance-gauge. And I've got that."

       *       *       *       *       *

Worshipfully, Dona looked up at him. She probably hoped that he would
kiss her again, but he mistook it for interest.

He explained at length. There could be, of course, no measure of
distance traveled in emptiness. Astrogation has always been a matter
of dead reckoning plus direct observation. But at such immeasurably
high speeds there could be no direct observation. At matter-transmitter
speeds, no manual control could stop a ship in motion within any given
galaxy!

So Kim had planned a photo-gauge, which would throw off the
transmitter-field when a specific amount of radiation had reached it.
At thousands of light-speeds, the radiation impinging on the bow of
a ship, would equal in seconds the normal reception of years. When
a specific total of radiation had struck it, a relay would cut off
the drive field. Among other features, such a control would make it
impossible for a speeding ship to venture too close to a sun.

Kim set joyously to work to make three changes in the overdrive
circuit, and to build a radiation-operated relay.

Outside the space-ship the sky turned deep-purple. Presently the
dull-red sun arose, and the white hoarfrost melted and glistened wetly,
and most of it evaporated in a thin white mist. The frozen waterfall
dripped and dripped, and presently flowed freely. The lichenous plants
rippled and stirred in the thin chill winds that blew over the small
planet, and even animals appeared, stupid and sluggish things, which
lived upon the lichens.

Hours passed. The dull-red sun sank low and vanished. The little
waterfall flowed more and more slowly, and at last ceased altogether.
The sky became a deep dense black and multitudes of stars shone down on
the grounded space-ship.

It was a small, starved world, this planet, swinging in lonely
isolation around a burned-out sun. About it lay the galaxy in which
were three hundred million inhabited worlds, circling brighter, hotter,
much more splendid stars. But the starveling little planet was the only
place in all the galaxy, save one, where no Disciplinary Circuit held
the human race in slavery.

Nothing happened visibly upon the planet during many days. There were
nights in which the hoarfrost glistened whitely, and days in which the
frozen waterfall thawed and splashed valiantly.

The sluggish, stupid animals ignored the space-ship. It was motionless
and they took it for a rock. Only twice did its two occupants
emerge, to gather the vegetation which was raw material for their
food-synthesizer. On the second expedition, Kim seized upon an animal
to add to the larder, but its helpless futile struggles somehow
disgusted him. He let it go.

"I prefer test-tube meat," he said distastefully. "We've food enough
anyhow for a long, long time. At worst we can always come back for
more."

They went into the ship and stored the vegetable matter in the
synthesizer-bins. They returned, then, to the control-room.

"I think it's right," Kim said soberly, as he took the seat before the
control-panel. "But nobody ever knows. Maybe we have a space-ship now
which makes matter-transmitters absurd. Maybe we've something we can't
control at all, which will land us hundreds of millions of light-years
away, so that we'll never be able to find even this galaxy again."

"Maybe we might have something which will simply kill us instantly,"
Dona said quietly. "That's right, isn't it?"

He nodded.

"When I push this button we find out."

She put her hand over his. She bent over and kissed him. Then she
pressed down his finger on the control-stud.

Incredible, glaring light burst into the viewports, blinding them.
Relays clicked loudly. Alarms rang stridently. The "Starshine" bucked
frantically, and the vision-screens flared with a searing light before
the light-control reacted....

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a sun in view to the left. It was a blue-white giant which
even at a distance which reduced its disk to the size of a water-drop,
gave off a blistering heat. To the right, within a matter of a very few
millions of miles, there was a cloud-veiled planet.

"At least we traveled," Kim said. "And a long way, too. Cosmography's
hardly a living science since exploration stopped, but that star surely
wasn't in the cluster we came from."

He cut off the alarms and the meteor-repeller beams which strove to
sheer the "Starshine" away from the planet, as they had once driven it
backward away from Alphin III. He touched a stud which activated the
relay which would turn on overdrive should a fighting-beam touch its
human occupants.

He waited, expectant, tense. The space-ship was no more than ten
million miles from the surface of the cloud-wreathed world. If there
were an alarm-system at work, the detectors on the planet should
be setting up a terrific clamor, now, and a fighter-beam should be
stabbing out at any instant to destroy the two occupants of the
"Starshine." Kim found himself almost cringing from anticipation of
the unspeakable agony which only an instant's exposure to a pain-beam
involved.

But nothing happened. They watched the clouds. Dona trained the
electron-telescope upon them. They were not continuous. There were
rifts through which solidity could be glimpsed, sometimes clearly, and
sometimes as through mist.

She put in an infra-red filter and stepped up the illumination. The
surface of the planet came into view on the telescope-screen. They
saw cities. They saw patches of vegetation of unvarying texture,
which could only be cultivated areas providing raw material for the
food-synthesizers. They saw one city of truly colossal size.

"We'll go in on planetary drive," Kim said quietly. "We must have gone
beyond news of us, or they'd have stabbed at us before now. But we'll
be careful. I think we'd better sneak in on the night-side. We'll turn
on the communicator, by the way. We may get some idea of the identity
of this sun."

He put the little ship into a power-orbit, slanting steeply inward in a
curve which would make contact with the planet's atmosphere just beyond
the sunset-line. He watched the hull-thermometers for their indications.

They touched air very high up, and went down and down, fumbling and
cautious. The vision-screens were blank for a long time, but the
instruments told of solidity two hundred miles below, then one hundred,
then fifty, twenty-five, ten--

Suddenly the communicator-speaker spoke in a gabble of confusing
voices. Dona tuned it down to one. All the galaxy spoke the same
language, of course, but this dialect was strangely accented. Presently
they grew accustomed and could understand.

"We all take pride in the perfection of our life," the voice said
unctuously. "Ten thousand years ago perfection was attained upon this
planet, and it is for us to maintain that perfection. Unquestioningly,
we obey our rulers, because obedience is a part of perfection.
Sometimes our rulers give us orders which, to all appearances, are
severe. It is not always easy to obey. But the more difficult obedience
may be, the more necessary it is for perfection. The Disciplinary
Circuit is a reminder of that need as it touches us once each day to
spur us to perfection. The destruction of a family, even to first and
second cousins, for the disobedience of a single member, is necessary
that every seed of imperfection shall be eliminated from our life."

Kim and Dona looked at each other. Dona tuned to another of the voices.

"People of Uvan!" The tones were harsh and arrogant. "I am your new
lord. These are your orders. Your taxes are increased by one-tenth. I
require absolute obedience not only to myself, but to my guards. If
any man, woman or child shall so much as think a protest against my
lightest command, he or she shall writhe in agony in a public place
until death comes, and it will not come quickly! Before my guards
you will kneel. Before my personal attendants you will prostrate
yourselves, not daring to lift your eyes. That is all for the present."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dona cut it off quickly. A dry, crisp voice came in on a higher
wavelength.

"This is Matix speaking. You will arrange at once to procure from
Khamil Four a shipment of fighting animals for the Lord Sohn's festival
four days hence. Fliers will arrive at the matter-transmitter to take
them on board tomorrow afternoon two hours before sunset. Lord Sohn
was most pleased with the gheets in the last shipment. They do not
fight well against men, but against women they are fairly deadly. In
addition--"

"Somehow, I don't think we'll land, Dona," Kim said very quietly. "But
turn back to the first voice."

Her hand shook, but she obeyed. The unctuous voice had somehow the air
of ending its speech.

"Before going on, I repeat we are grateful for the perfection of our
way of life, and we resolve firmly that so long as our planet shall
circle Altair, in no wise will we depart from it."

Kim turned the nose of the "Starshine" upward. The stars of the galaxy
seemed strangely bright and monstrously indifferent. The little
space-ship drove back into the heavens.

After a pause, Kim turned to Dona.

"Look up Altair," he said. "We came a very long way indeed."

There was silence save for the rustling of the index-volume as Dona
searched for Altair in the sun-index. Presently she read off the
space-coördinates. Kim calculated, ruefully.

"That wasn't space-travel," he said drily. "That was
matter-transmission. The 'Starshine' is a matter-transmitter, Dona,
transmitting itself and us. I wasn't aware of any interval between the
time I pressed the stud and the time the altered field shut off. But we
came almost a quarter across the galaxy."

"It was--horrible," Dona said, shivering. "I thought Alphin Three was
bad, but the tyranny here is ghastly."

"Alphin Three is a new planet," Kim told her grimly. "This one below us
is old. Alphin Three has been occupied for barely two hundred years.
Its people have relatively the vigor and the sturdy independence of
pioneers, and still they're sheep! We're in an older part of the galaxy
now and the race back here has grown old and stupid and cruel. And I
imagine it's ready to die."

He bent forward and made a careful adjustment of the light-operated
distance-gauge. He cut it down enormously.

"We'll try it again," he said. He pressed the stud....




                              CHAPTER VI

                            _Haven at Last_


An increasing sense of futility and depression crept over Kim and Dona
during the next few days.

They visited four solar-systems, separated by distances which would
have seemed unthinkable before the alteration of the overdrive.

There was no longer any sensation of travel, because no distance
required any appreciable period of time. Once, indeed, Kim commented
curtly on the danger that would exist if they went too close to the
galaxy's edge. With only the amount of received light to work the
cut-out switch, under other circumstances they might have plunged
completely out of the galaxy and to unimaginable distances before the
switch could have acted.

"I'm going to have to put a limiting device of some sort on this
thing," he observed. "With a limiting device, the transmitter-drive
can't stay on longer than a few microseconds. If we don't, we might
find ourselves lost from our own galaxy and unable to find it again.
Not that it would seem to matter so much."

His skepticism seemed justified. The "Starshine" was the only vessel
now plying among the stars. It had been of the last and best type,
though by no means the largest, ever constructed, and by three small
changes in its overdrive mechanism Kim had made it into something of
which other men had never dreamed.

For the first time in the history of the human race, other galaxies
were open to the exploration and the colonization of men. It was
probably possible for the cosmos itself to be circumnavigated in the
"Starshine." But its crew of two humans could find no planet of their
own race on which they dared to land.

They approached Voorten II, and found a great planet seemingly empty of
human beings. There were roads and cities, but the roads were empty and
the cities full of human skeletons. Kim and Dona saw only three living
beings of human form, and they were skin and bones and shook clenched
fists and gibbered at the slim space-craft as it hovered overhead. The
"Starshine" soared away.

It hovered over Makab VI, and there were towers which had been
power-houses rusting into ruin, and human beings naked and chained,
pulling ploughs while other human beings flourished whips behind them.
The great metropolis where the matter-transmitter should have been was
ruins. Unquestionably the matter-transmitter here had been destroyed
and the planet was cut off from the rest of civilization.

They came fearfully to rest above the planet center upon Moteh VII and
saw decay. The people reveled in the streets, but listlessly, and the
communicator brought only barbarous, sensual music and howled songs of
a beastliness that was impossible to describe.

The vessel actually touched ground upon Xanin V. Kim and Dona actually
talked to two citizens. But those folk were blank-faced and dull. Yet
what they told Kim and Dona, apathetically, in response to questioning,
was so disheartening that Dona impulsively offered to take them away.
But the two citizens were frightened at the idea. They fled when Dona
would have urged them.

Out in clear space again, on interplanetary drive, Kim looked at Dona
with brooding eyes.

"It looks as if we can't find a home, Dona," he said quietly. "The
human race is finished. We completed a job, we humans. We conquered a
galaxy and we occupied it, and the job was done. Then we went downhill.
You and I, we came from the newest planet of all, and we didn't
fit. We're criminals there. But the older planets, like these, are
indescribably horrible." He stopped, and asked wryly, "What shall we
do, Dona? I'd have liked a wedding ceremony. But what are we going to
do?"

Dona smiled at him.

"There's one place yet. The Prime Board called us criminals. Let's look
up the criminals on Ades. Maybe--and it's just possible--people who
have mustered energy and independence enough to commit political crimes
would be bearable. If we don't find anything there, why, we'll go to
another galaxy, choose a planet and settle down. And I promise I won't
be sorry, Kim!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kim made his computations and swung the "Starshine" carefully. He was
able to center the course of the space-ship with absolute precision
upon the sun around which Ades circled slowly in lonely majesty.
He pressed the matter-transmission stud, and the alarm-bells rang
stridently, and there was the sun and the planet Ades barely half a
million miles from their starting-point.

It was not a large planet, and there was much ice and snow. The
electron-telescope showed no monster cities, either, but there
were settlements of a size that could be picked out. Kim sent the
"Starshine" toward it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Of course, I'm only head of this small city," said the man with the
bearskin hat. "And my powers are limited here, but I think we'll find
plenty to join us. I'll go, of course, if you'll take me."

Kim nodded in an odd grim satisfaction.

"We'll set up matter-transmitters," he suggested. "Then there'll be
complete and continuous communication with this planet from the start."

"Right," said the man with the bearskin hat. He added candidly; "We've
brains on Ades, my friend. We've got every technical device the rest
of the galaxy has, except the Disciplinary Circuit, and we won't allow
that! If this is a scheme of some damned despot to add another planet
to his empire, it won't work. There are three empires already started,
you know, all taken by matter-transmitter. But that won't work here!"

"If you build the transmitters yourselves, you'll know there's
nothing tricky about the circuits," Kim said. "My offer is to take a
transmitter and an exploring party to the next nearest galaxy and pick
out a planet there to start on. Ades isn't ideal."

"No," agreed the man with the bearskin hat. "It's too cold, and we're
overcrowded. There are twenty million of us and more keep coming
out of the transmitter every day. The Galaxy seems to be combing
out its brains and sending them all here. We're short of minerals,
though--metals, especially. So we'll pick some good sound planets to
start on over in the second galaxy. Hm! Come to the communicator and
we'll talk to the other men we need to reach."

They went out of the small building which was the center of government
of the quite small city. There was nothing impressive about it,
anywhere. It was not even systematically planned. Each citizen, it
appeared, had built as he chose. Each seemed to dress as he pleased,
too.

To Kim and to Dona there was a startling novelty in the faces they saw
about them. On Alphin III almost everybody had looked alike. At any
rate their faces had worn the same expression of bovine contentment.

On other planets contentment had not been the prevailing sentiment. On
some, despair had seemed to be universal.

But these people, these criminals, were individuals. Their manner was
not the elaborate, cringing politeness of Alphin III. It was free and
natural.

The communicator-station was rough and ready. It was not a work of art,
but a building put up by people who needed a building and built one for
that purpose only. The vision-screens lighted up one by one and faces
appeared, as variegated as the costumes beneath them. They had a common
look of aliveness which was heartening to Kim.

The conference lasted for a long time. There was enthusiasm, and there
was reserve. The "Starshine" would carry a matter-transmitter to the
next galaxy and open a way for migration of the criminals of Ades to a
new island universe for conquest.

Kim would turn over the construction-records of the space-ship
so that others could be built. He would give the details of the
matter-transmitter alteration. No space-ships had been attempted
by the inhabitants of Ades, because fighting-beams would soon have
been mounted on useful planets, against them, and all useful planets
contained only enemies.

"What do you want?" asked a figure in one vision-plate. "We don't do
things for nothing, here, and we don't take things without paying for
them, either."

"Dona and I want only a place to live and a people to live among who
are free," Kim answered sharply.

"You've got that," the man in the bearskin hat said. "All right? We'll
all call public meetings and confirm these arrangements?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The heads of other cities nodded.

"We'll pass on the news to other cities at once," another man said. He
was one of those who had nodded. "Everybody will wish to come in on it,
of course. If not now, then later."

"Wait!" Kim said suddenly. "How about the planets around us? Are we
going to leave them enslaved?"

"Nobody can free a slave," a whiskered man in a vision-plate said
drily. "We could only release prisoners. In time we may have to take
them over, I suppose, but on the planet I come from there aren't a
dozen men who'd know how to be free if we emancipated them. They don't
want to be free. They're satisfied as they are. If any of them want to
be free, they'll be sent here, eventually."

"I am reluctant to desert them," Kim answered slowly.

"Count, man," the man with the bearskin hat cried. "There are three
hundred million inhabited planets! All of them but Ades are ruled by
Disciplinary Circuits. If we set out to liberate them, it would take
one thousand years, and there are only twenty millions of us. We'll
designate just one of us to stay on each planet to teach the people to
be free again. Otherwise we wouldn't do a tenth of the job and we'd
destroy ourselves by scattering. Why, hang it all, we'd be tyrants! No!
We go on and start on a new galaxy. That's a job worth doing. We'll
keep a group of watchers here to receive the new ones who come here
into exile and forward them. Some day, maybe, we'll come back and take
over the old galaxy if it seems worth while. But we've a job to do.
How many galaxies are there, anyhow, for us and our children and our
children's children to take over?"

"It's a job that will never be finished," another voice said. "That's
good!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There were trees visible from the window of the house that had been
offered by a citizen for Kim's and Dona's use. The sun went down beyond
those trees, with a glowing of many colors in the foliage. Kim had
never watched a sunset before except upon the towers and pinnacles of
a city. He had never noted quite this sharp tang in the air, either,
which he learned was the smell of fresh growing things.

"I think I'm going to like living like this," he said to Dona. "Have
you noticed the way people act? They don't behave as if I were
important at all, in one way. They seem to think I'm commonplace. But
I've never before felt so definitely that I matter."

"You do, Kim, darling," Dona said, wisely. She stood close beside him,
watching the sunset too. She looked up at him. "You matter enormously,
and they know it. But to themselves they matter, too, and when they
listen to you and agree with you it's because they mean it, instead of
just citizen-like politeness. It is good. I think it must be a part of
what we've been looking for. It's a part of freedom, I suppose."

"And you," Kim said. "Do you feel important too?"

She laughed at him and pressed close.

"My dear!" she said. "Could I help it? Can any woman help feeling
important on her wedding-day? Do you realize that we've been married
two whole hours?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DISCIPLINARY CIRCUIT ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
